================================================================================

libxml2-v2.13.5

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W3C-Document-License-1994-2002
Public documents on the W3C site are provided by the copyright holders under the
following license. The software or Document Type Definitions (DTDs) associated
with W3C specifications are governed by the Software Notice. By using and/or
copying this document, or the W3C document from which this statement is linked,
you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with
the following terms and conditions:

Permission to use, copy, and distribute the contents of this document, or the
W3C document from which this statement is linked, in any medium for any purpose
and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the
following on ALL copies of the document, or portions thereof, that you use:

A link or URL to the original W3C document.
The pre-existing copyright notice of the original author, or if it doesn't
exist, a notice of the form: "Copyright © [$date-of-document] World Wide Web
Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de
Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights
Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/" (Hypertext is preferred, but a
textual representation is permitted.)
If it exists, the STATUS of the W3C document.
When space permits, inclusion of the full text of this NOTICE should be
provided. We request that authorship attribution be provided in any software,
documents, or other items or products that you create pursuant to the
implementation of the contents of this document, or any portion thereof.

No right to create modifications or derivatives of W3C documents is granted
pursuant to this license. However, if additional requirements (documented in the
Copyright FAQ) are satisfied, the right to create modifications or derivatives
is sometimes granted by the W3C to individuals complying with those
requirements.

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS
OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE;
THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE; NOR THAT THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS,
COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to this document or its contents without specific, written
prior permission. Title to copyright in this document will at all times remain
with copyright holders.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IPTC

Non-Exclusive License Agreement for International Press
Telecommunications Council Specifications and Related Documentation

IMPORTANT: International Press Telecommunications Council (IPTC)
standard specifications for news (the Specifications) and supporting
software, documentation, technical reports, web sites and other
material related to the Specifications (the Materials) including the
document accompanying this license (the Document), whether in a paper
or electronic format, are made available to you subject to the terms
stated below. By obtaining, using and/or copying the Specifications or
Materials, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood,
and will comply with the following terms and conditions.

1. The Specifications and Materials are licensed for use only on the
condition that you agree to be bound by the terms of this license.
Subject to this and other licensing requirements contained herein, you
may, on a non-exclusive basis, use the Specifications and Materials.

2. The IPTC openly provides the Specifications and Materials for
voluntary use by individuals, partnerships, companies, corporations,
organizations and any other entity for use at the entity's own risk.
This disclaimer, license and release is intended to apply to the IPTC,
its officers, directors, agents, representatives, members,
contributors, affiliates, contractors, or co-venturers acting jointly
or severally.

3. The Document and translations thereof may be copied and furnished
to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain
it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the copyright and license notices and references to the
IPTC appearing in the Document and the terms of this Specifications
License Agreement are included on all such copies and derivative
works. Further, upon the receipt of written permission from the IPTC,
the Document may be modified for the purpose of developing
applications that use IPTC Specifications or as required to translate
the Document into languages other than English.

4. Any use, duplication, distribution, or exploitation of the Document
and Specifications and Materials in any manner is at your own risk.

5. NO WARRANTY, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, IS MADE REGARDING THE ACCURACY,
ADEQUACY, COMPLETENESS, LEGALITY, RELIABILITY OR USEFULNESS OF ANY
INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE DOCUMENT OR IN ANY SPECIFICATION OR OTHER
PRODUCT OR SERVICE PRODUCED OR SPONSORED BY THE IPTC. THE DOCUMENT AND
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN AND INCLUDED IN ANY SPECIFICATION OR
OTHER PRODUCT OR SERVICE OF THE IPTC IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS.
THE IPTC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY ACTUAL OR ASSERTED WARRANTY OF NON-
INFRINGEMENT OF PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NEITHER THE IPTC NOR ITS CONTRIBUTORS SHALL BE
HELD LIABLE FOR ANY IMPROPER OR INCORRECT USE OF INFORMATION. NEITHER
THE IPTC NOR ITS CONTRIBUTORS ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANYONE'S
USE OF INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE IPTC. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE IPTC OR
ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANYONE FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, COMPENSATORY DAMAGES, LOST PROFITS, LOST
DATA OR ANY FORM OF SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL OR
PUNITIVE DAMAGES OF ANY KIND WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT OR
WARRANTY, TORT, PRODUCT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE.

6. The IPTC takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
Intellectual Property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in the
Document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available. The IPTC does not represent that it has made
any effort to identify any such rights. Copies of claims of rights
made available for publication, assurances of licenses to be made
available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of the Specifications and Materials, can be
obtained from the Managing Director of the IPTC.

7. By using the Specifications and Materials including the Document in
any manner or for any purpose, you release the IPTC from all
liabilities, claims, causes of action, allegations, losses, injuries,
damages, or detriments of any nature arising from or relating to the
use of the Specifications, Materials or any portion thereof. You
further agree not to file a lawsuit, make a claim, or take any other
formal or informal legal action against the IPTC, resulting from your
acquisition, use, duplication, distribution, or exploitation of the
Specifications, Materials or any portion thereof. Finally, you hereby
agree that the IPTC is not liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages arising from or relating to your acquisition,
use, duplication, distribution, or exploitation of the Specifications,
Materials or any portion thereof.

8. Specifications and Materials may be downloaded or copied provided
that ALL copies retain the ownership, copyright and license notices.

9. Materials may not be edited, modified, or presented in a context
that creates a misleading or false impression or statement as to the
positions, actions, or statements of the IPTC.

10. The name and trademarks of the IPTC may not be used in
advertising, publicity, or in relation to products or services and
their names without the specific, written prior permission of the
IPTC. Any permitted use of the trademarks of the IPTC, whether
registered or not, shall be accompanied by an appropriate mark and
attribution, as agreed with the IPTC.

11. Specifications may be extended by both members and non-members to
provide additional functionality (Extended Specifications) provided
that there is a clear recognition of the IPTC IP and its ownership in
the Extended Specifications and the related documentation and provided
that the extensions are clearly identified and provided that a
perpetual license is granted by the creator of the Extended
Specifications for other members and non-members to use the Extended
Specifications and to continue extensions of the Extended
Specifications. The IPTC does not waive any of its rights in the
Specifications and Materials in this context. The Extended
Specifications may be considered the intellectual property of their
creator. The IPTC expressly disclaims any responsibility for damage
caused by an extension to the Specifications.

12. Specifications and Materials may be included in derivative work of
both members and non-members provided that there is a clear
recognition of the IPTC IP and its ownership in the derivative work
and its related documentation. The IPTC does not waive any of its
rights in the Specifications and Materials in this context. Derivative
work in its entirety may be considered the intellectual property of
the creator of the work .The IPTC expressly disclaims any
responsibility for damage caused when its IP is used in a derivative
context.

13. This Specifications License Agreement is perpetual subject to your
conformance to the terms of this Agreement. The IPTC may terminate
this Specifications License Agreement immediately upon your breach of
this Agreement and, upon such termination you will cease all use,
duplication, distribution, and/or exploitation in any manner of the
Specifications and Materials.

14. This Specifications License Agreement reflects the entire
agreement of the parties regarding the subject matter hereof and
supersedes all prior agreements or representations regarding such
matters, whether written or oral. To the extent any portion or
provision of this Specifications License Agreement is found to be
illegal or unenforceable, then the remaining provisions of this
Specifications License Agreement will remain in full force and effect
and the illegal or unenforceable provision will be construed to give
it such effect as it may properly have that is consistent with the
intentions of the parties.

15. This Specifications License Agreement may only be modified in
writing signed by an authorized representative of the IPTC.

16. This Specifications License Agreement is governed by the law of
United Kingdom, as such law is applied to contracts made and fully
performed in the United Kingdom. Any disputes arising from or relating
to this Specifications License Agreement will be resolved in the
courts of the United Kingdom. You consent to the jurisdiction of such
courts over you and covenant not to assert before such courts any
objection to proceeding in such forums.

IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS YOU MUST CEASE ALL USE OF THE
SPECIFICATIONS AND MATERIALS NOW. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT
THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT THE MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL
PRESS TELECOMMUNICATION COUNCIL. AS OF THE DATE OF THIS REVISION OF
THIS SPECIFICATIONS LICENSE AGREEMENT YOU MAY CONTACT THE IPTC at
http://www.iptc.org.

License agreement version of: 30 January 2006

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IOS

Permission to copy in any form is granted for use with
conforming SGML systems and applications as defined in
ISO 8879, provided this notice is included in all copies.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE AUTHORS AND
CONTRIBUTORS ACCEPT NO RESPONSIBILITY IN ANY CONCEIVABLE MANNER.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-later
GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.1, March 2000

Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE
The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written
document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective
freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either
commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the
author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed
by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this
License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of
the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose
contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic
text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for
drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input
to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable
for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent
modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is
called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human
modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that
can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for
which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes
only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

2. VERBATIM COPYING
You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in
covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts
on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must
also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The
front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally
prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title
of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying
in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible
computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the
Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has
access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network
protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at
least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS
You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has less than five).
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item
stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified
Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in
the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the
Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the
section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each
of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title
with any Invariant Section.
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document,
provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a
compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the
other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their
being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the
Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the
Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the
whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION
Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the original English
version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and
the original English version of this License, the original English version will
prevail.

9. TERMINATION
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts being
LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST. A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of
saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no
Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-
Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W3C-19980720

W3C® SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 1994-2002 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique,
Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/

This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is being
provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining,
using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read,
understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation, with or without modification,  for any purpose and without fee or
royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies
of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications,
that you make:

     1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the
redistributed or derivative work.

     2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms
and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the following form (hypertext
is preferred, text is permitted) should be used within the body of any
redistributed or derivative code: "Copyright © [$date-of-software] World Wide
Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de
Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights
Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/"

      3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the
date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from
which the code is derived.)

THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE
NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT
THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY
PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission.
Title to copyright in this software and any associated documentation will at all
times remain with copyright holders.

____________________________________

This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on August 14 1998 so
as to improve compatibility with GPL. This version ensures that W3C software
licensing terms are no more restrictive than GPL and consequently W3C software
may be distributed in GPL packages. See the older formulation for the policy
prior to this date. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common questions about
using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for
packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can
be directed to site-policy@w3.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Latex2e

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by the Free Software Foundation.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FSFAP

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International

 Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and does
not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative Commons
public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship. Creative
Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an "as-is"
basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its licenses, any material
licensed under their terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative
Commons disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and conditions
that creators and other rights holders may use to share original works of
authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other rights
specified in the public license below. The following considerations are for
informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of our
licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by those
authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways otherwise
restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are irrevocable.
Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of the license
they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the material
as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject to the
license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used under an
exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified terms
and conditions. If the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason-for
example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to copyright-then
that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant only permissions
under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has authority to grant.
Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for other reasons,
including because others have copyright or other rights in the material. A
licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked or
described.

Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to respect those
requests where reasonable. More considerations for the public.

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent
this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the
Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and
conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits
the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these
terms and conditions.

Section 1 - Definitions.

     a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights
held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is
always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a
moving image.

     b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

     c. BY-SA Compatible License means a license listed at
creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative Commons as
essentially the equivalent of this Public License.

     d. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

     e. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

     f. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

     g. License Elements means the license attributes listed in the name of a
Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this Public License are
Attribution and ShareAlike.

     h. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

     i. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

     j. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

     k. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public
display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or
importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

     l. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March
1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well
as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

     m. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 - Scope.

     a.	License grant.

          1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-
exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed
Material to:

               A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in
part; and

               B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

          2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not
apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

          3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

          4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor
authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether
now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to
do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to
forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the
Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent
Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply
making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
Material.

          5. Downstream recipients.

               A. Offer from the Licensor - Licensed Material. Every recipient
of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.

               B. Additional offer from the Licensor - Adapted Material. Every
recipient of Adapted Material from You automatically receives an offer from the
Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material under the
conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

               C. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any
additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise
of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.

          6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may
be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of
the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted
official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

     b.	Other rights.

          1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or
agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent
necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.

          2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.

          3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or
through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves
any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 - License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following
conditions.

     a.	Attribution.

          1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form),
You must:

               A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with
the Licensed Material:

                    i.  identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed
Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable
manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

                    ii.	a copyright notice;

                    iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                    iv.	a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

                    v.  a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
extent reasonably practicable;

               B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

               C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public
License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
License.

          2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed
Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by
providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
information.

          3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

     b. ShareAlike.In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

          1. The Adapter's License You apply must be a Creative Commons license
with the same License Elements, this version or later, or a BY-SA Compatible
License.

          2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share Adapted
Material.

          3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or
conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, Adapted
Material that restrict exercise of the rights granted under the Adapter's
License You apply.

Section 4 - Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material:

     a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to
extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the
contents of the database;

     b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in
a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material, including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

     c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or
a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 - Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

     a. Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.

     b. To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

     c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 - Term and Termination.

     a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar
Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License,
then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

     b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
Section 6(a), it reinstates:

          1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is
cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

          2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     c. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right
the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
License.

     d. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

     e.	Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 - Other Terms and Conditions.

     a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

     b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.

Section 8 - Interpretation.

     a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not
be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

     b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

     c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

     d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the "Licensor." Except for
the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons
policies published at creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not
authorize the use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or
logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph
does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-2.0

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0

 CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE LEGAL
SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS LICENSE DOES NOT CREATE AN ATTORNEY-CLIENT
RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS.
CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE INFORMATION PROVIDED, AND
DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ITS USE.

License

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE COMMONS
PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR
OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS
LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE
BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED
HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions

     a. "Collective Work" means a work, such as a periodical issue, anthology or
encyclopedia, in which the Work in its entirety in unmodified form, along with a
number of other contributions, constituting separate and independent works in
themselves, are assembled into a collective whole. A work that constitutes a
Collective Work will not be considered a Derivative Work (as defined below) for
the purposes of this License.

     b. "Derivative Work" means a work based upon the Work or upon the Work and
other pre-existing works, such as a translation, musical arrangement,
dramatization, fictionalization, motion picture version, sound recording, art
reproduction, abridgment, condensation, or any other form in which the Work may
be recast, transformed, or adapted, except that a work that constitutes a
Collective Work will not be considered a Derivative Work for the purpose of this
License. For the avoidance of doubt, where the Work is a musical composition or
sound recording, the synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a moving
image ("synching") will be considered a Derivative Work for the purpose of this
License.

     c. "Licensor" means the individual or entity that offers the Work under the
terms of this License.

     d. "Original Author" means the individual or entity who created the Work.

     e. "Work" means the copyrightable work of authorship offered under the
terms of this License.

     f. "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this License
who has not previously violated the terms of this License with respect to the
Work, or who has received express permission from the Licensor to exercise
rights under this License despite a previous violation.

     g. "License Elements" means the following high-level license attributes as
selected by Licensor and indicated in the title of this License: Attribution,
ShareAlike.

2. Fair Use Rights. Nothing in this license is intended to reduce, limit, or
restrict any rights arising from fair use, first sale or other limitations on
the exclusive rights of the copyright owner under copyright law or other
applicable laws.

3. License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, Licensor
hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for the
duration of the applicable copyright) license to exercise the rights in the Work
as stated below:

     a. to reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more
Collective Works, and to reproduce the Work as incorporated in the Collective
Works;

     b. to create and reproduce Derivative Works;

     c. to distribute copies or phonorecords of, display publicly, perform
publicly, and perform publicly by means of a digital audio transmission the Work
including as incorporated in Collective Works;

     d. to distribute copies or phonorecords of, display publicly, perform
publicly, and perform publicly by means of a digital audio transmission
Derivative Works.

     e. For the avoidance of doubt, where the work is a musical composition:

          i. Performance Royalties Under Blanket Licenses. Licensor waives the
exclusive right to collect, whether individually or via a performance rights
society (e.g. ASCAP, BMI, SESAC), royalties for the public performance or public
digital performance (e.g. webcast) of the Work.

          ii. Mechanical Rights and Statutory Royalties. Licensor waives the
exclusive right to collect, whether individually or via a music rights society
or designated agent (e.g. Harry Fox Agency), royalties for any phonorecord You
create from the Work ("cover version") and distribute, subject to the compulsory
license created by 17 USC Section 115 of the US Copyright Act (or the equivalent
in other jurisdictions).

     f. Webcasting Rights and Statutory Royalties. For the avoidance of doubt,
where the Work is a sound recording, Licensor waives the exclusive right to
collect, whether individually or via a performance-rights society (e.g.
SoundExchange), royalties for the public digital performance (e.g. webcast) of
the Work, subject to the compulsory license created by 17 USC Section 114 of the
US Copyright Act (or the equivalent in other jurisdictions).

The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known or
hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make such modifications
as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other media and formats.
All rights not expressly granted by Licensor are hereby reserved.

4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made
subject to and limited by the following restrictions:

     a. You may distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
digitally perform the Work only under the terms of this License, and You must
include a copy of, or the Uniform Resource Identifier for, this License with
every copy or phonorecord of the Work You distribute, publicly display, publicly
perform, or publicly digitally perform. You may not offer or impose any terms on
the Work that alter or restrict the terms of this License or the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted hereunder. You may not sublicense the Work. You
must keep intact all notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of
warranties. You may not distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or
publicly digitally perform the Work with any technological measures that control
access or use of the Work in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this
License Agreement. The above applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collective
Work, but this does not require the Collective Work apart from the Work itself
to be made subject to the terms of this License. If You create a Collective
Work, upon notice from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove
from the Collective Work any reference to such Licensor or the Original Author,
as requested. If You create a Derivative Work, upon notice from any Licensor You
must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Derivative Work any reference
to such Licensor or the Original Author, as requested.

     b. You may distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
digitally perform a Derivative Work only under the terms of this License, a
later version of this License with the same License Elements as this License, or
a Creative Commons iCommons license that contains the same License Elements as
this License (e.g. Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 Japan). You must include a copy
of, or the Uniform Resource Identifier for, this License or other license
specified in the previous sentence with every copy or phonorecord of each
Derivative Work You distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
digitally perform. You may not offer or impose any terms on the Derivative Works
that alter or restrict the terms of this License or the recipients' exercise of
the rights granted hereunder, and You must keep intact all notices that refer to
this License and to the disclaimer of warranties. You may not distribute,
publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly digitally perform the Derivative
Work with any technological measures that control access or use of the Work in a
manner inconsistent with the terms of this License Agreement. The above applies
to the Derivative Work as incorporated in a Collective Work, but this does not
require the Collective Work apart from the Derivative Work itself to be made
subject to the terms of this License.

     c. If you distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
digitally perform the Work or any Derivative Works or Collective Works, You must
keep intact all copyright notices for the Work and give the Original Author
credit reasonable to the medium or means You are utilizing by conveying the name
(or pseudonym if applicable) of the Original Author if supplied; the title of
the Work if supplied; to the extent reasonably practicable, the Uniform Resource
Identifier, if any, that Licensor specifies to be associated with the Work,
unless such URI does not refer to the copyright notice or licensing information
for the Work; and in the case of a Derivative Work, a credit identifying the use
of the Work in the Derivative Work (e.g., "French translation of the Work by
Original Author," or "Screenplay based on original Work by Original Author").
Such credit may be implemented in any reasonable manner; provided, however, that
in the case of a Derivative Work or Collective Work, at a minimum such credit
will appear where any other comparable authorship credit appears and in a manner
at least as prominent as such other comparable authorship credit.

5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer

UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK
AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE
MATERIALS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTIBILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY,
OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH
EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation on Liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN
NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS
LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination

     a. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License. Individuals
or entities who have received Derivative Works or Collective Works from You
under this License, however, will not have their licenses terminated provided
such individuals or entities remain in full compliance with those licenses.
Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.

     b. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is
perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in the Work).
Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right to release the Work under
different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at any time; provided,
however that any such election will not serve to withdraw this License (or any
other license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the terms of
this License), and this License will continue in full force and effect unless
terminated as stated above.

8. Miscellaneous

     a. Each time You distribute or publicly digitally perform the Work or a
Collective Work, the Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the Work on
the same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under this License.

     b. Each time You distribute or publicly digitally perform a Derivative
Work, Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the original Work on the
same terms and conditions as the license granted to You under this License.

     c. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the
remainder of the terms of this License, and without further action by the
parties to this agreement, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum
extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

     d. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no
breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed
by the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.

     e. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to the Work licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or
representations with respect to the Work not specified here. Licensor shall not
be bound by any additional provisions that may appear in any communication from
You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written agreement of
the Licensor and You.

Creative Commons is not a party to this License, and makes no warranty
whatsoever in connection with the Work. Creative Commons will not be liable to
You or any party on any legal theory for any damages whatsoever, including
without limitation any general, special, incidental or consequential damages
arising in connection to this license. Notwithstanding the foregoing two (2)
sentences, if Creative Commons has expressly identified itself as the Licensor
hereunder, it shall have all rights and obligations of Licensor.

Except for the limited purpose of indicating to the public that the Work is
licensed under the CCPL, neither party will use the trademark "Creative Commons"
or any related trademark or logo of Creative Commons without the prior written
consent of Creative Commons. Any permitted use will be in compliance with
Creative Commons' then-current trademark usage guidelines, as may be published
on its website or otherwise made available upon request from time to time.

Creative Commons may be contacted at http://creativecommons.org/.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is fur-
nished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OASIS

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished
to others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain
it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to OASIS, except as needed for the
purpose of developing OASIS specifications, in which case the
procedures for copyrights defined in the OASIS Intellectual Property
Rights document must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not
be revoked by OASIS or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and OASIS DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE
USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-2.0

This software includes the "XML Schema for Changelogs" which is copyrighted by
Randy J. Ray. The material is licensed under CC-BY-SA-2.0. The license text is
provided in this document.

For more information please visit: http://www.blackperl.com/XML/ChangeLog/

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

This software includes parts of the KANJIDIC2 project which is copyrighted by
Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group. The parts are licensed
under CC-BY-SA-4.0. The license text is provided in this document.

For more information please visit:
https://www.edrdg.org/kanjidic/kanjd2index_legacy.html

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W3C-Document-License-1994-2002

Copyright © 1999 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique,
Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/
This version is available at https://www.w3.org/TR/1999/PR-xhtml1-19991210/
This version is outdated

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W3C-Document-License-1994-2002


Copyright © 1999 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique,
Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/
This version is available at https://www.w3.org/TR/1999/PR-xhtml1-19991210/
This version is outdated

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W3C-19980720

Copyright © 1999 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique,
Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

© Copyright Microsoft Corporation, 1999
© 2000 GameSquad.net All Rights Reserved.
© 1947 Éditions Gallimard. Author Albert Camus
copyright Netscape Communications, 1999
copyright 2001, 2004 John Fleck jfleck@inkstain.net, Ziying Sherwin
sherwin@nlm.nih.gov, Heiko Rupp hwr@pilhuhn.de
copyright 2001, 2004 John Fleck jfleck@inkstain.net
copyright 2001 OASIS
copyright 2000 Telsa Gwynne, John Fleck, Red Hat Inc., Dan Mueth, and Alexander
Kirillov
copyright 2000 Red Hat, Inc., Daniel Mueth, and Alexander Kirillov
Copyright The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information
Standards [OASIS] 2001. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright Microsoft Corporation, 1999
Copyright Microsoft Corporation
Copyright 2001, 2004 John Fleck <jfleck@inkstain.net>
Copyright 1999 http://www.w3.org W3C
Copyright 1999  http://www.w3.org W3C
Copyright 1994-99 Wired Digital Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) IPTC, 2000 - 2003 All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2014 Mike Frysinger <vapier@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Vojtech Fried.
Copyright (c) 2012 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Maarten Bosmans <mkbosmans@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2017 Christopher Swenson.
Copyright (c) 2008 Guido U. Draheim <guidod@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2000. All Rights Reserved. International Press Telecommunications
Council http://www.iptc.org
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 W3C (MIT, INRIA, Keio), All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group
Copyright (C) Daniel Veillard
Copyright (C) 2020 Sebastian Pipping <sebastian@pipping.org>
Copyright (C) 2003-2012 Daniel Veillard.
Copyright (C) 2000 Gary Pennington and Daniel Veillard.
Copyright (C) 1998-2017 Daniel Veillard.
Copyright (C) 1998-2012 Daniel Veillard. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright  2001, 2004 John Fleck <jfleck@inkstain.net>
(C) International Organization for Standardization 1986
(C) 1999, 2000 WAP Forum Ltd. All rights reserved
