================================================================================

theora-v1.1.1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Trust-Legal-Provisions-1.0
                                             IETF TRUST
                        Legal Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
                                    Approved November 6, 2008
                               Effective Date: November 10, 2008
1. Background
The IETF Trust was formed on December 15, 2005, for, among other things, the
purpose
of acquiring, holding, maintaining and licensing certain existing and future
intellectual property
used in connection with the Internet standards process and its administration,
for the
advancement of science and technology associated with the Internet and related
technology.
Accordingly, pursuant to RFC 5378, Contributors to the IETF Standards Process
grant the IETF
Trust certain licenses with respect to their IETF Contributions. In RFC 5377,
the IETF
Community has provided the IETF Trust with guidance regarding licenses that the
IETF Trust
should grant to others with respect to such IETF Contributions and IETF
Documents. These
Legal Provisions describe the rights and licenses that the IETF Trust grants to
others with respect
to such IETF Contributions and IETF Documents; as well as certain restrictions,
limitations and
notices relating to IETF Documents. Capitalized terms used in these Legal
Provisions that are
not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in RFC 5378.
2. Applicability of these Legal Provisions.
a. These Legal Provisions are effective as of November 10, 2008 (the “Effective
Date”).
b. The licenses granted by the IETF Trust pursuant to these Legal Provisions
apply
only with respect to (i) IETF Contributions (including Internet-Drafts) that are
submitted to the
IETF following the Effective Date, and (ii) IETF RFCs and other IETF Documents
that are
published after the Effective Date.
c. IETF Contributions made, and IETF Documents published, prior to the Effective
Date (“Pre-Existing IETF Documents”) remain subject to the licensing provisions
of the IETF
copyright policy document in effect at the time of their publication, including
RFCs 1310, 1602,
2026, 3978 and 4748.
d. In most cases, rights to Pre-Existing IETF Documents that are not expressly
granted under these RFCs can only be obtained by requesting such rights directly
from the
document authors. The IETF Trust and the Internet Society do not become involved
in making
such requests to document authors.
e. These Legal Provisions may be amended from time to time by the IETF Trust in
a
manner consistent with the guidance provided by the IETF community and its own
operating
procedures. Any amendment to these Legal Provisions shall be posted for review
at
http://trustee.ietf.org/policyandprocedures.html and shall become effective on a
date specified
by the IETF Trust, but no earlier than thirty (30) days following its posting.
Such amendment
shall apply with respect to all IETF Contributions made and IETF Documents
published
following the effective date of such amendment. All prior versions of these
Legal Provisions
shall continue to be posted at http://trustee.ietf.org/policyandprocedures.html
for reference with
respect to IETF Contributions and IETF Documents as to which they may apply.
3. Licenses to IETF Documents and IETF Contributions.
a. License For Use Within the IETF Standards Process. The IETF Trust hereby
grants to each participant in the IETF Standards Process, to the greatest extent
that it is permitted
to do so, a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right and license under all
copyrights and
rights of authors:
i. to copy, publish, display and distribute IETF Contributions and IETF
Documents, in whole or in part, as part of the IETF Standards Process, and
ii. to translate IETF Contributions and IETF Documents, in whole or part,
into languages other than English as part of the IETF Standards Process, and
iii. unless explicitly disallowed in the notices contained in an IETF
Contribution or IETF Document (as specified in Section 6.b below), to modify or
prepare
derivative works of such IETF Contributions or IETF Documents, in whole or in
part, as part of
the IETF Standards Process.
 b. IETF Standards Process. The term IETF Standards Process has the meaning
assigned to it in RFC 5378. In addition, the IETF Trust interprets the IETF
Standards Process to
include the archiving of IETF Documents in perpetuity for reference in support
of IETF activities
and the implementation of IETF standards and specifications.
 c. Licenses For Use Outside the IETF Standards Process. In addition to the
rights
granted with respect to Code Components described in Section 4 below, the IETF
Trust hereby
grants to each person who wishes to exercise such rights, to the greatest extent
that it is permitted
to do so, a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right and license under all
copyrights and
rights of authors:
i. to copy, publish, display and distribute IETF Contributions and IETF
Documents in full and without modification,
ii. to translate IETF Contributions and IETF Documents into languages other
than English, and to copy, publish, display and distribute such translated IETF
Contributions and
IETF Documents in full and without modification,
iii. to copy, publish, display and distribute unmodified portions of IETF
Contributions and IETF Documents and translations thereof, provided that:
(x) each such portion is clearly attributed to IETF and identifies the
RFC or other IETF Document or IETF Contribution from which it is taken, 
(y) all IETF legends, legal notices and indications of authorship
contained in the original IETF RFC must also be included where any substantial
portion of the
text of an IETF RFC, and in any event where more than one-fifth of such text, is
reproduced in a
single document or series of related documents.
 d. Licenses that are not Granted. The following licenses are not granted
pursuant to
these Legal Provisions:
i. any license to modify IETF Contributions or IETF Documents, or portions
thereof (other than to make translations or to extract, use and modify Code
Components as
permitted under the licenses granted under Section 4 of these Legal Provisions)
in any context
outside the IETF Standards Process, or
ii. any license to publish, display or distribute IETF Contributions or IETF
Documents, or portions thereof, without the required legends and notices
described in these
Legal Provisions.
 e. Requesting Additional Rights. Anyone who wishes to request license rights
from
the IETF Trust in addition to those granted under these Legal Provisions may
submit such
request to trustees@ietf.org. Such request will be considered by the IETF Trust,
which will
make a decision regarding the request in its sole discretion and inform the
requester of its
disposition. In addition, individual Contributors may be contacted regarding
licenses to their
IETF Contributions. The IETF Trust does not limit the ability of IETF
Contributors to license
their Contributions, so long as those licenses do not affect the rights granted
to the IETF Trust
under RFC 5378.
4. License to Code Components.
a. Definition. IETF Contributions and IETF Documents often include components
intended to be directly processed by a computer (“Code Components”). A list of
common Code
Components can be found at http://trustee.ietf.org/policyandprocedures.html .
b. Identification. Text in IETF Contributions and IETF Documents of the types
identified in Section 4.a above shall constitute “Code Components”. In addition,
any text found
between the markers <CODE BEGINS> and <CODE ENDS>, or otherwise clearly labeled
as a
Code Component, shall be considered a “Code Component”.
 c. License. In addition to the licenses granted under Section 3, Code
Components
are also licensed to each person who wishes to receive such a license on the
terms of the "BSD
License", as described below. If a licensee elects to apply the BSD License to a
Code
Component, then the additional licenses and restrictions set forth in Section 3
and elsewhere in
these Legal Provisions shall not apply thereto.
BSD License:
Copyright (c) [insert year] IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All rights
reserved. 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided
that the following conditions are met:
• Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the
following disclaimer.
• Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.
• Neither the name of Internet Society, IETF or IETF Trust, nor the names of
specific contributors, may
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written
permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
The above BSD License is intended to be compatible with the BSD License template
published
at http://opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php .
d. Attribution. Those who use Code Components under the license granted under
Section 4.c above are requested to attribute each such Code Component to IETF
and identify the
RFC or other IETF Document or IETF Contribution from which it is taken. Such
attribution
may be placed in the code itself (e.g., “This code was derived from IETF RFC
[insert RFC
number]. Please reproduce this note if possible.”) or any other reasonable
location.
5. License Limitations.
a. No Patent License. The licenses granted under these Legal Provisions shall
not be
deemed to grant any right under any patent, patent application or similar
intellectual property
right.
 b. Supersedure. The terms of any license granted under these Legal Provisions
may
be superseded by a written agreement between the IETF Trust and the licensee
that specifically
references and supersedes the relevant provisions of these Legal Provisions,
except that (i) the
IETF Trust shall in no event be authorized to grant rights with respect to any
Contribution in
excess of those which it has been granted by the Contributor, and (ii) the
rights granted shall not
be less than those otherwise granted under these Legal Provisions.
6. Text To Be Included in IETF Documents. The following text must be included on
the
first page of each IETF Document as specified below:
 a. Submission Compliance for Internet-Drafts. In each Internet-Draft: 
This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the provisions
of BCP 78 and
BCP 79.
 b. Copyright and License Notice. In each IETF Document (including RFCs and
Internet-Drafts):
Copyright (c) [insert year] IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All
rights reserved.
This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust’s Legal Provisions
Relating to IETF
Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
and restrictions
with respect to this document.
 c. Derivative Works and Publication Limitations. If a Contributor desires to
limit
the right to make modifications and derivative works of an IETF Contribution, or
to limit its
publication, one of the following notices must be included. These notices may
not be used with
any standards-track document, nor with most working group documents.
i. If the Contributor does not wish to allow modifications, but does wish to
allow publication as an RFC:
This document may not be modified, and derivative works of it may not be
created, except to
format it for publication as an RFC and to translate it into languages other
than English.
ii. If the Contributor does not wish to allow modifications nor to allow
publication as an RFC:
This document may not be modified, and derivative works of it may not be
created, and it may not
be published except as an Internet-Draft.
7. Terms Applicable to All IETF Documents. The following legal terms apply to
all IETF
Documents:
a. All IETF Documents and the information contained therein are provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT
THE USE OF THE INFORMATION THEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
b. The IETF Trust takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to pertain to
the implementation
or use of the technology described in any IETF Document or the extent to which
any license
under such rights might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it
has made any
independent effort to identify any such rights. 
c. Copies of Intellectual Property disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and
any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt
made to obtain a
general license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of
this specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
http://www.ietf.org/ipr
.
d. The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights,
patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights that may cover
technology that may be
required to implement any standard or specification contained in an IETF
Document. Please
address the information to the IETF at ietf-ipr@ietf.org.
e. The definitive version of an IETF Document is that published by, or under the
auspices of, the IETF. Versions of IETF Documents that are published by third
parties,
including those that are translated into other languages, should not be
considered to be definitive
versions of IETF Documents. The definitive version of these Legal Provisions is
that published
by, or under the auspices of, the IETF. Versions of these Legal Provisions that
are published by
third parties, including those that are translated into other languages, should
not be considered to
be definitive versions of these Legal Provisions.
f. For the avoidance of doubt, each Contributor to the IETF Standards Process
licenses each Contribution that he or she makes as part of the IETF Standards
Process to the
IETF Trust pursuant to the provisions of RFC 5378. No language to the contrary,
or terms,
conditions or rights that differ from or are inconsistent with the rights and
licenses granted under
RFC 5378, shall have any effect and shall be null and void, whether published or
posted by such
Contributor, or included with or in such Contribution. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Warranty-Disclaimer

This system is distributed in the hope that it will be useful
to others, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Patent-License-Grant

In addition to and irrespective of the copyright license associated
with this software, On2 Technologies, Inc. makes the following statement
regarding technology used in this software:

On2 represents and warrants that it shall not assert any rights
relating to infringement of On2's registered patents, nor initiate
any litigation asserting such rights, against any person who, or
entity which utilizes the On2 VP3 Codec Software, including any
use, distribution, and sale of said Software; which make changes,
modifications, and improvements in said Software; and to use,
distribute, and sell said changes as well as applications for other
fields of use.

This reference implementation is originally derived from the On2 VP3
Codec Software, and the Theora video format is essentially compatible
with the VP3 video format, consisting of a backward-compatible superset.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Autoconf-exception
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
    with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
    51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.

As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Anyone may freely use and distribute the Ogg and Theora specifications, whether
in private, public, or corporate capacity.
However, the Xiph.org Foundation and the Ogg project reserve the right to set
the Ogg Theora specification and certify specification compliance.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-4-Clause-UC

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
must display the following acknowledgement:
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-4-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
must display the following acknowledgement:
This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of the Xiph.org Foundation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of CSIRO Australia nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ORGANISATION OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-or-later

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program
which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

   (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

      c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0-or-later

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is numbered 2 because
it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

      (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.

Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-4-Clause

This product includes software developed by the NetBSD Foundation, Inc. and its
contributors.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright © 2004 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
Copyright © 2002-2009Xiph.Org Foundation
Copyright © 2002-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
Copyright 2004-2007 Xiph.org Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Ross Bencina and Phil Burk
Copyright (c) 1987, 1993, 1994 The Regents of the University of California. All
rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Thomas Östreich - June 2001
Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2006).
Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2005).
Copyright (C) QNX Software Systems Ltd. 1995 All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
(CSIRO) Australia
Copyright (C) 2002-2009 Xiph.org Foundation
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Xiph.Org Foundation
Copyright (C) 2002 Thomas Östreich
Copyright (C) 1999 Rainer Johanni <Rainer@Johanni.de>
Copyright (C) 1989-1994, 1996-1999, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1987,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,96,97,98 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1987,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,98,99,2000,2001 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1987, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.
COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009,2009 by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors
http://www.xiph.org/
COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009 by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/
COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2009 by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors
http://www.xiph.org/
COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2007 by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/
COPYRIGHT (C) 2002-2004 by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/
COPYRIGHT (C) 1999-2006 by the Xiph.Org Foundation http://www.xiph.org/
(C) COPYRIGHT 1994-2009 by the Xiph.Org Foundation and contributors
http://www.xiph.org/
