================================================================================

rancher-2.7.6

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUSE-EULA
End User License Agreement for SUSE Products
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY PURCHASING, INSTALLING,
DOWNLOADING OR OTHERWISE USING THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING ITS
COMPONENTS), YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO
NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, YOU ARE NOT PERMITTED TO DOWNLOAD,
INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE AND YOU SHOULD NOTIFY THE PARTY FROM
WHICH YOU PURCHASED THE SOFTWARE TO OBTAIN A REFUND. AN
INDIVIDUAL ACTING ON BEHALF OF AN ENTITY REPRESENTS THAT HE OR SHE
HAS THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THAT
ENTITY.
This End User License Agreement (“Agreement”) is a legal agreement between You
(an
entity or a person) and SUSE LLC (“Licensor”). SUSE (including Rancher) software
products
for which You have acquired licenses, any media or reproductions (physical or
virtual)
and accompanying documentation (collectively the “Software”) are protected by
the
copyright laws and treaties of the United States (“U.S.”) and other countries
and is subject
to the terms of this Agreement. If the laws of Your principal place of business
require
contracts to be in the local language to be enforceable, such local language
version may
be obtained from Licensor upon written request and shall be deemed to govern
Your
purchase of licenses to the Software. Any add-on, extension, update, mobile
application,
module, adapter or support release to the Software that You may download or
receive
that is not accompanied by a license agreement is Software and is governed by
this
Agreement. If the Software is an update or support release, then You must have
validly
licensed the version and quantity of the Software being updated or supported in
order to
install or use the update or support release.
Licensed Use
Open Source
Nothing in this Agreement shall restrict, limit or otherwise affect any rights
or obligations
You may have, or conditions to which You may be subject, under any applicable
open
source licenses to any open source code contained in the Software. The Software
may
include or be bundled with other software programs licensed under different
terms and/or
licensed by a third party other than Licensor. Use of any software programs
accompanied
by a separate license agreement is governed by that separate license agreement.
Subscription Services and Support
Licensor has no obligation to provide maintenance or support unless You purchase
a
subscription offering that expressly includes such services. Licensor sells
subscription
offerings for the Software that entitles You to fee based technical support
and/or internal
use of Software updates provided on a specified annual period (“Subscription
Offering”)
and are subject to the SUSE’s product Terms and Conditions available at
https://www.suse.com/products/terms_and_conditions.pdf (“Terms and Conditions”).
Marks
No right or license, express or implied, is granted under this Agreement with
respect to any
trademark, trade name or service mark of Licensor or its Affiliates or licensors
(“Mark”).
This Agreement does not permit you to distribute the Software or its components
using
Licensor's trademarks, regardless of whether the copy has been modified. You may
make
a commercial redistribution of the Programs only if (a) permitted under a
separate written
agreement with Licensor authorizing such commercial redistribution, or (b) you
remove
and replace all occurrences of any Mark.
Ownership
No title to or ownership of the Software is transferred to You. Licensor and/or
its third party
licensors retain all right, title and interest in and to all intellectual
property rights in the
Software and Services, including any adaptations or copies thereof. The Software
is not
sold to You, You acquire only a conditional license to use the Software. Title,
ownership
rights and intellectual property rights in and to the content accessed through
the
Software are the property of the applicable content owner and may be protected
by
applicable copyright or other law. This Agreement gives You no rights to such
content.
GENERAL LICENSE GRANT APPLICABLE UNLESS SPECIFIC PRODUCT LICENSE
GRANT APPLIES (SEE BELOW)
The Software and each of its components are owned by Licensor or other licensors
and
are protected under copyright laws and other applicable laws. Subject to
compliance with
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor grants to You a perpetual,
nonexclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce and use copies of
the
Software within Your Organization "Organization" means a legal entity and its
Affiliates.
“Affiliates” means entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
control
with You. The above license is conditioned upon You being responsible and liable
for any
breach of the provisions of this Agreement by Your Affiliates.
LICENSE SPECIFIC TO SUSE Enterprise Storage Base Configuration
Subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor
grants to
You a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce
and use
within Your Organization (as defined above) up to four (4) copies of SUSE
Enterprise
Storage deployed on one (1) to two (2) CPU socket server nodes and up to four
(4) copies
of SUSE Linux Enterprise Server deployed on the same one (1) to two (2) CPU
socket server
nodes for the sole purpose of running up to four (4) copies of the SES Object
Storage
Daemon (as defined in the Terms and Conditions) component on same server nodes
within a specific storage cluster. With respect to the same storage cluster,
Licensor grants
to You a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to
reproduce and
use within Your Organization (as defined in the general license grant section
above) up to
six (6) copies of SUSE Enterprise Storage and up to six (6) copies of SUSE Linux
Enterprise
Server for the sole purpose of running up to six (6) SES Infrastructure Nodes
(as defined in
the Terms and Conditions) on the same storage cluster.
LICENSE SPECIFIC TO SUSE Enterprise Storage Expansion Node
Subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor
grants to
You a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce
and use
within Your Organization (as defined above) one (1) copy of SUSE Enterprise
Storage
deployed on a one (1) to two (2) CPU socket server node and one (1) copy of SUSE
Linux
Enterprise Server deployed on the same one (1) to two (2) CPU socket server node
for the
sole purpose of running one (1) copy of the SES Object Storage Daemon (as
defined in the
Terms and Conditions) component on one (1) particular storage cluster provided
that
such storage cluster already has one (1) SUSE Enterprise Storage Base
Configuration
actively deployed. With respect to the same storage cluster, Licensor grants to
You a
perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce and
use within
Your Organization (as defined above) up to one (1) copy of SUSE Enterprise
Storage and
up to one (1) copy of SUSE Linux Enterprise Server for the sole purpose of
running up to one
(1) SES Infrastructure Node (as defined in the Terms and Conditions) on the same
storage
cluster.
LICENSE SPECIFIC TO SUSE LINUX Enterprise Point of Service
Subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor
grants to
You a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce
and use
copies of the Software within Your Organization (as defined above) solely in
connection
with, and for the duration of, your lawfully acquired licenses for SUSE Linux
Enterprise
Server, SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop and associated products. You agree to use
SUSE
Linux Enterprise Point of Service solely for the purpose of running a point of
service
infrastructure within Your Organization (as defined above) and not as a general
purpose
operating system.
LICENSE SPECIFIC TO SUSE LINUX Enterprise Micro
Subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor
grants to
You a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide license to reproduce
and use
copies of the Software within Your Organization (as defined above) solely in
connection
with, and for the duration of, your lawfully acquired licenses for SUSE Linux
Enterprise
Server, SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop and associated products. You agree to use
SUSE
Linux Enterprise Micro solely for the purpose of running within Edge and SUSE
Embedded
(appliance) deployments or as a hypervisor for SUSE Linux Enterprise Server
within Your
Organization (as defined above) and not as a general purpose operating system.
License Restrictions
The Software and each of its components are owned by Licensor and/or its
licensors and
are protected under copyright law and under other laws as applicable. Title to
the
Software and any component, or to any copy, modification, or merged portion
shall
remain with Licensor and other licensors, subject to the applicable license.
Licensor
reserves all rights not expressly granted to You. The Software is licensed for
Your internal
use only. Except as this Agreement expressly allows and without limiting any
rights or
obligations set forth in the “Open Source” section above, You may not (1) remove
any
patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary notices or
labels on the
Software or its documentation; (2) modify, alter, create derivative works,
reverse engineer,
decompile, or disassemble the Software except and only to the extent expressly
permitted
by applicable law; (3) transfer, assign, pledge, rent, timeshare, host or lease
the Software,
or sublicense any of Your license grants or rights under this Agreement; in
whole or in part,
without prior written permission of Licensor, (4) disclose the results of any
performance,
functional or other evaluation or benchmarking of the Software to any third
party without
the prior written permission of Licensor.
Outsourcing
Your license to use the Software may be used under the terms of this Agreement
by a
third party acting on Your behalf, such as a third party cloud provider or
outsourcing
vendor who manages or hosts (either remotely or virtually) the Software for You,
subject
to and conditioned upon Your adherence to the following: (1) You remain
responsible for
all of Your obligations under this Agreement and enter into an enforceable
agreement
with the third party that contains terms and conditions to protect Licensor's
rights in the
Software that are no less restrictive than those contained in this Agreement,
including
without limitation the Audits section below; (2) You prohibit use of the
Software by the
third party for any purpose other than Your sole benefit; (3) You are solely
responsible to
Licensor for any and all breaches of this Agreement by the third party; and (4)
You are
and will remain current on subscription purchases that cover all installations
and
deployments of the Software by the third party on Your behalf.
Appliance License
If, either directly from Licensor or from a third party, you have received a
hardware,
software or other appliance that uses the Software, You acknowledge and agree to
use
the Software solely for the purpose of running the appliance and not as a
general purpose
operating system.
Warranty and Liability
Limited Warranty
Licensor warrants that the media that the Software is delivered on will be free
from defects
in materials and manufacture under normal use for a period of sixty (60) days
from the
date of delivery to you. THE FOREGOING WARRANTY IS YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE
REMEDY
AND IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. SAVE FOR THE
FOREGOING
WARRANTY, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
Services
Licensor warrants that any Services purchased will be supplied in a professional
manner
in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. This warranty will be
effective
for thirty (30) days following delivery of the Services. Upon any breach of this
warranty,
Licensor’s only obligation is to either correct the Services so that they comply
with this
warranty or at its option refund the amount You paid to Licensor for the portion
of the
Services that fail to comply with this warranty. You agree to take appropriate
measures to
isolate and back up Your systems.
THE SOFTWARE IS NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED FOR USE OR DISTRIBUTION
WITH ON-LINE CONTROL EQUIPMENT IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE
PERFORMANCE, SUCH AS IN THE OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION,
COMMUNICATION, OR CONTROL SYSTEMS, DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT MACHINES, WEAPONS

SYSTEMS, OR OTHER USES IN WHICH FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE COULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO
DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE.
Non-Licensor Products
The Software may include or be bundled with hardware or other software programs
or
services licensed or sold by an entity other than Licensor. LICENSOR DOES NOT
WARRANT
NON-LICENSOR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES. ANY SUCH PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE PROVIDED
ON AN “AS IS” BASIS. WARRANTY SERVICE IF ANY FOR NON-LICENSOR PRODUCTS IS
PROVIDED
BY THE PRODUCT LICENSOR IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR APPLICABLE WARRANTY.
EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, LICENSOR DISCLAIMS AND EXCLUDES ANY AND
ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT NOR ARE THERE ANY WARRANTIES
CREATED BY COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR TRADE USAGE. LICENSOR
MAKES NO WARRANTY, REPRESENTATION OR PROMISE NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
LIMITED WARRANTY. LICENSOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL
SATISFY YOUR REQUIREMENTS, BE COMPATIBLE WITH ALL OPERATING SYSTEMS, OR THAT THE
OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. THE
FOREGOING EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS ARE AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS AGREEMENT AND
FORMED THE BASIS FOR DETERMINING THE PRICE CHARGED FOR THE PRODUCTS. Some
jurisdictions do not allow certain disclaimers and limitations of warranties, so
portions of
the above limitations may not apply to You. This limited warranty gives You
specific rights
and You may also have other rights which vary by state or jurisdiction.
Consequential Losses
NEITHER LICENSOR NOR ANY OF ITS THIRD PARTY LICENSORS, SUBSIDIARIES, OR
EMPLOYEES WILL
IN ANY CASE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT,
TORT,
ECONOMIC OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY OR OTHER TORT, BREACH OF ANY STATUTORY DUTY, INDEMNITY OR
CONTRIBUTION,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSS OF PROFITS, BUSINESS OR DATA, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF THOSE DAMAGES.
Direct Damages
IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY FOR DIRECT DAMAGES TO PROPERTY
OR
PERSON (WHETHER IN ONE INSTANCE OR A SERIES OF INSTANCES) EXCEED 1.25 TIMES THE
AMOUNT PAID BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES OUT OF WHICH SUCH CLAIM AROSE
(OR $50 (U.S.) IF YOU RECEIVED THE SOFTWARE FREE OF CHARGE).
The above exclusions and limitations will not apply to claims relating to death
or personal
injury caused by the negligence of Licensor or its employees, agents or
contractors. In
those jurisdictions that do not allow the exclusion or limitation of damages,
including,
without limitation, damages for breach of any implied terms as to title or quiet
enjoyment
of any Software obtained pursuant to this Agreement or for fraudulent
misrepresentation,
Licensor's liability shall be limited or excluded to the maximum extent allowed
within those
jurisdictions.

General Terms
Term
This Agreement becomes effective on the date You legally acquire the Software
and will
automatically terminate if You breach any of its terms.
Audits
Licensor or an Auditor (as defined below) has the right to verify Your
compliance with this
Agreement. You agree to:
1. Recordkeeping. Keep, and upon Licensor's request, provide records, sufficient
to
certify Your compliance with this Agreement based on the applicable license
metric, SUSE’s Compliance Charter located at
https://www.suse.com/company/legal/compliance-charter and the Terms and
Conditions for the Software. This may include without limitation serial numbers,
license keys, logs, the location, model (including quantity and type of
processor)
and serial number of all machines on which the Software is installed or accessed
or from which the Software can be accessed, the names (including corporate
entity) and number of users accessing or authorized to access the Software,
metrics, reports, copies of the Software (by product and version), and network
architecture diagrams as they may relate to Your licensing and deployment of the
Software and associated support and maintenance;
2. Questionnaire. Within seven (7) days of Licensor's request, You shall furnish
Licensor
or its designated independent auditor ("Auditor") a completed questionnaire
provided by Licensor or Auditor, accompanied with a written statement signed by
a director of Your Organization certifying the accuracy of the information
provided;
and
3. Access. Provide representatives of Licensor or Auditor any necessary
assistance
and access to records and computers to allow an inspection and audit of Your
computers and records, during Your normal business hours, for compliance with
the applicable Agreement and fully cooperate with such audit.
4. Non-Compliance. In the event that You have, or at any time have had,
unlicensed
installation, use of, or access to the Software or have otherwise breached this
Agreement (a "Non-Compliance"), without prejudice to any other rights or
remedies Licensor may have, including, without limitation, injunctive relief,
You
shall, within thirty (30) days' notice of such Non-Compliance to You, purchase
sufficient licenses and or subscriptions and associated support and maintenance
to cure the Non-Compliance, by paying Licensor's current (as of the date of such
additional purchase) list license fees and 12-month support and maintenance fees
to Licensor for such additional licenses, plus Licensor's current (as of the
date of
such additional purchase) list term license and support and maintenance fees
and interest (compounded at 1.5% monthly or the maximum rate permitted by
applicable law if lower) for such additional licenses for the time period from
the
commencement of the Non-Compliance until payment of the aforementioned
fees, with interest payable even if an invoice was not issued at the time the
Non
Compliance occurred. If Your Non-Compliance results in an underpayment of
license fees of 5% or greater, You shall also reimburse Licensor for the
reasonable
cost of such audit in addition to other amounts due.
Transfer
This Agreement and the associated licenses purchased for use of the Software may
not
be transferred or assigned without the prior written approval of Licensor. Any
such
attempted transfer or assignment shall be void and of no effect.
Law
All matters arising out of or relating to this Agreement will be governed by the
substantive
laws of the United States and the State of Utah without regard to its choice of
law
provisions. Any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this
Agreement may
only be brought before a federal or state court of appropriate jurisdiction in
Utah. If a
party initiates Agreement-related legal proceedings, the prevailing party will
be entitled to
recover reasonable attorneys' fees. If, however, Your principal place of
business is a
member state of the European Union or the European Free Trade Association, (1)
the
courts of Ireland shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any action of law
relating to this
Agreement; and (2) where the laws of such country of Your principal place of
business are
required to be applied to any such action of law the laws of that country shall
apply. The
application of the United Nations Convention of Contracts for the International
Sale of
Goods is expressly excluded.
Entire Agreement
This Agreement, together with any other purchase documents or other agreement
between You and Licensor, sets forth the entire understanding and agreement
between
You and Licensor and may be amended or modified only by a written agreement
agreed
to by You and an authorized representative of Licensor. NO THIRD PARTY LICENSOR,
DISTRIBUTOR, DEALER, RETAILER, RESELLER, SALES PERSON, OR EMPLOYEE IS AUTHORIZED
TO
MODIFY THIS AGREEMENT OR TO MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION OR PROMISE THAT IS DIFFERENT
FROM, OR IN ADDITION TO, THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
Waiver
No waiver of any right under this Agreement will be effective unless in writing,
signed by a
duly authorized representative of the party to be bound. No waiver of any past
or present
right arising from any breach or failure to perform will be deemed to be a
waiver of any
future right arising under this Agreement.
Severability
If any provision in this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, that provision
will be
construed, limited, modified or, if necessary, severed, to the extent necessary,
to eliminate
its invalidity or unenforceability, and the other provisions of this Agreement
will remain
unaffected.
Export Compliance
You acknowledge that Licensor’s products and/or technology are subject to the
U.S. Export
Administration Regulations (the “EAR”) and You agree to comply with the EAR. You
will not
export or re-export Licensor’s products, directly or indirectly, to: (1) any
countries that are
subject to US export restrictions; (2) any end user who You know or have reason
to know
will utilize Licensor’s products in the design, development or production of
nuclear,
chemical or biological weapons, or rocket systems, space launch vehicles, and
sounding
rockets, or unmanned air vehicle systems, except as authorized by the relevant
government agency by regulation or specific license; or (3) any end user who has
been
prohibited from participating in the US export transactions by any federal
agency of the
US government. By downloading or using the Software, You are agreeing to the
foregoing
and You are representing and warranting that You are not located in, under the
control of,
or a national or resident of any such country or on any such list. In addition,
You are
responsible for complying with any local laws in Your jurisdiction which may
impact Your
right to import, export or use Licensor’s products. Please consult the Bureau of
Industry
and Security web page https://www.bis.doc.gov before exporting items subject to
the EAR.
For more information on exporting Software, including the applicable Export
Control
Classification Number (ECCN) and associated license exception (as applicable),
see
https://www.suse.com/company/legal/. Upon request, Licensor’s International
Trade
Services Department can provide information regarding applicable export
restrictions for
Licensor products. Licensor assumes no responsibility for Your failure to obtain
any
necessary export approvals.
:version:2021-03-08:001
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright Rancher Labs, Inc.
Copyright 2023 Rancher Labs, Inc.
Copyright 2020 Rancher Labs, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Istio Authors
Copyright (c) 2014-2023 Rancher Labs, Inc. http://rancher.com
