================================================================================

mediapipe-v0.10.3

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Restrictive-Proprietary

Shutterstock License Agreement(s)
Terms of Service
The current Terms of Service are printed below. 

Dear Shutterstock Customer:

The following Terms of Service ("TOS") is a legal agreement between you or the
employer or other entity on whose behalf you are entering into this agreement
("you" or "Customer") and Shutterstock (as such term is defined in Part V
Section 24 below) and sets forth the rights and obligations with respect to any
Content licensed by you.

Please revisit this TOS when you purchase any Content licenses. Shutterstock
reserves the right to modify the TOS at any time in its sole discretion. Prior
to such changes becoming effective, Shutterstock will use reasonable efforts to
notify you of any such change. Such notice may be made by email to the email
address on file in your Shutterstock account, an announcement on this page, your
login page, and/or by other means. Modifications to this TOS will only apply to
prospective purchases (including any automated renewals). By licensing Content
following any such modifications, you agree to be bound to the TOS as modified.

THIS IS A SINGLE SEAT LICENSE AUTHORIZING ONE NATURAL PERSON TO LICENSE,
DOWNLOAD AND USE CONTENT. UNLESS YOU UPGRADE TO A "TEAM SUBSCRIPTION" OR
"PREMIER PLATFORM" ACCOUNT, NO OTHER PERSONS (INCLUDING EMPLOYEES, CO-WORKERS OR
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS) MAY ACCESS YOUR ACCOUNT OR USE CONTENT LICENSED THROUGH
YOUR ACCOUNT.

IF YOU PURCHASE A "TEAM SUBSCRIPTION" THE RIGHT TO LICENSE, DOWNLOAD AND USE
CONTENT IS LIMITED TO THE NUMBER OF USERS PERMITTED BY THAT TEAM SUBSCRIPTION.
SHUTTERSTOCK’S "PREMIER PLATFORM" GRANTS ACCESS AND USAGE RIGHTS TO UNLIMITED
USERS AMONG OTHER ADDITIONAL RIGHTS.

IF YOU ARE PURCHASING A SUBSCRIPTION TO A SHUTTERSTOCK SERVICE, SUCH SERVICE IS
SUBJECT TO THE SOFTWARE-AS-A-SERVICE TERMS AVAILABLE "HERE"

If you require access and usage rights for more than one natural person, please
contact Customer Service (Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US
1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer Support or our Premier Team). For clarity, if a
user is acting in an employment capacity, the employer will be deemed the
licensee for the purposes of the license.

"Content" means all content available for license from the Shutterstock website,
including Images, Video, Editorial, and Music (as defined herein.)

"Video" means any moving images, animations, films, videos or other audio/visual
representations, video elements, visual effects elements, templates, graphics
packs, and motion design projects excluding still images, recorded in any format
(a/k/a “Footage” in prior versions of the TOS).

"Image(s)" means still photographs, vectors, drawings, graphics, and the like.

"Music" means any musical compositions, master recordings, and any other
recordings containing sounds or a series of sounds, in all formats, now known
and hereinafter developed.

"Editorial" means still photographs and video appearing under the Editorial
tab/section.

"Visual Content" shall refer collectively to Editorial, Images, and Video.

PART I – VISUAL CONTENT LICENSES
Shutterstock hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use,
modify (except as expressly prohibited herein) and reproduce Visual Content
worldwide, in perpetuity, as expressly permitted by the applicable license and
subject to the limitations set forth herein:
IMAGE LICENSES

A STANDARD IMAGE LICENSE grants you the right to use Images:

As a digital reproduction, including on websites, in online advertising, in
social media, in mobile advertising, mobile "apps", software, e-cards,
e-publications (e-books, e-magazines, blogs, etc.), email marketing and in
online media (including on video-sharing services such as YouTube, Dailymotion,
Vimeo, etc., subject to the budget limitations set forth in sub-section I.a.i.4
below);

Printed in physical form as part of product packaging and labeling, letterhead
and business cards, point of sale advertising, CD and DVD cover art, or in the
advertising and copy of tangible media, including magazines, newspapers, and
books provided no Image is reproduced more than 500,000 times in the aggregate;

As part of an "Out-of-Home" advertising campaign, including on billboards,
street furniture, etc., provided the intended audience for such campaign is less
than 500,000 gross impressions.

Incorporated into film, video, television series, advertisement, or other audio-
visual productions for distribution in any medium now known or hereafter
devised, without regard to audience size, provided the budget for any such
production does not exceed USD $10,000;

For your own personal, non-commercial use (not for resale, download,
distribution, or any commercial use of any kind)

AN ENHANCED IMAGE LICENSE grants you the right to use Images (which rights are
in addition to 1-5 above and exclusive to Enhanced Image Licenses):

In any manner permitted under a Standard Image License, without any limitation
on the number of reproductions, impressions, or budget;

Incorporated into merchandise intended for sale or promotional distribution
(collectively "Merchandise"), including, without limitation, textiles, artwork,
magnets, wall-art, calendars, toys, stationery, greeting cards, and any other
physical reproduction for resale or distribution, provided that such Merchandise
incorporates material creative or functional elements apart from the Image(s).

In wall art (and without requiring further creative or functional elements) for
decorative purposes in a commercial space owned by you or your client, and not
for sale.

Incorporated as elements of digital templates for sale or distribution.

If the Standard or Enhanced Image licenses do not grant the rights you require
please contact Customer Service. (Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US
1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer Support)

VIDEO LICENSES

A STANDARD VIDEO USE LICENSE grants you the right to use Video:

in a multi-media production displayed or distributed via the web, on social
media, using so-called "Apps", or as otherwise disseminated in accordance
herewith (see restrictions for distribution limitations), provided the audience
for such production does not exceed 500,000, it being understood that the use of
Video in a multi-media production distributed via broadcast, cable network, OTT
video service, or in theaters is expressly prohibited under this license,
irrespective of audience size;

in connection with a live performance, provided the audience for all such
performances does not exceed 500,000 people;

on websites.

AN ENHANCED VIDEO USE LICENSE grants you the right to use Video:

in a multi-media production displayed or distributed via the web, on social
media, using so-called "Apps", and expressly including the right to distribute
via broadcast, cable network, OTT video service, or in theaters, with no
limitation on audience size;

in connection with a live performance, with no limitation on audience size;

In Digital Templates for resale, for up to (but not exceeding) 1,000 licenses to
such digital templates;

on websites.

If the Video Use License does not grant the rights you require, please contact
Customer Service. (Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US 1-646-419-4452
Email: Customer Support)

A VIDEO COMP LICENSE grants you the right to use watermarked, low resolution
Video as a comp (the "Comp Video") solely in test, sample, comp, or rough cut
evaluation materials. Video Comp Licenses do not permit you to display or
distribute to the public or incorporate into any final materials any such Video.
Comp Video can be edited, but you may not remove or alter the Shutterstock
watermark. Comp Video is available to license under the Video Use License at the
time it is downloaded as Comp Video, but Shutterstock makes no guarantees and
shall have no obligation to ensure that Comp Video will be available for license
at any time thereafter.

EDITORIAL LICENSE

AN EDITORIAL LICENSE grants you the right to make a single, editorial use of an
item of Editorial content, which single use may be distributed worldwide, in
perpetuity.

A "single use" for the purposes of this license permits the use of Editorial
content in a single context (i.e., a news story, blog post, page of a
publication) a single time, provided you shall have the right to distribute that
use in-context across unlimited mediums and distribution channels. For example,
the use of Editorial content to illustrate a printed article, maybe reused on a
blog, on social media, etc., provided it is in-context to the original printed
article. Any use not in-context to the original printed article would require an
additional license.

An "editorial use" for the purposes of this license shall be a use made for
descriptive purposes in a context that is newsworthy or of human interest and
expressly excludes commercial uses such as advertising or merchandising.

Any use of Editorial Content licensed hereunder is further subject to those
express restrictions set forth in Part I, Section 4 (prohibiting any use
distributed via broadcast/cable/OTT, on publication covers, and in print runs in
excess of 500,000) as well as any “special restrictions” (e.g., geographical or
industry-specific usage restrictions) indicated on the image detail page and/or
included in the metadata attached to an item of Editorial Content.

All Editorial content shall be deemed "Editorial Use Only" for the purposes of
this TOS.

Not all Editorial content is available for license from the Shutterstock
website, nor may it be available from all subscriptions. You understand that the
Editorial content available for license can change at any time and you shall
have no right to demand to license any particular item of Editorial content. If
you want to license any Editorial content not available for license from the
website, please contact Customer Service. (Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954,
Outside US 1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer Support)

RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF VISUAL CONTENT
YOU MAY NOT:

Use Visual Content other than as expressly provided by the license you purchased
with respect to such Visual Content.

Portray any person depicted in Visual Content (a "Model") in a way that a
reasonable person would find offensive, including but not limited to depicting a
Model: a) in connection with pornography, "adult videos", adult entertainment
venues, escort services, dating services, or the like; b) in connection with the
advertisement or promotion of tobacco products; c) in a political context, such
as the promotion, advertisement or endorsement of any party, candidate, or
elected official, or in connection with any political policy or viewpoint; d) as
suffering from, or medicating for, a physical or mental ailment; or e) engaging
in immoral or criminal activities.

Use any Visual Content in a pornographic, defamatory, or deceptive context, or
in a manner that could be considered libelous, obscene, or illegal.

Modify Visual Content designated "Editorial Use Only" in a manner that changes
the context of what is depicted.

Use Visual Content designated "Editorial Use Only" (including, but not limited
to, Editorial content) for commercial purposes, including for reference, in any
advertising, merchandise or other non-editorial contexts.

Resell, redistribute, provide access to, share or transfer any Visual Content
except as specifically provided herein. For example and not by way of
limitation, the foregoing prohibits displaying Content as, or as part of, a
"gallery" of content through which third parties may search and select from such
content.

Use Visual Content in a manner that infringes upon any third party's trademark
or other intellectual property, or would give rise to a claim of deceptive
advertising or unfair competition.

Use any Visual Content (in whole or in part) as a trademark, service mark, logo,
or other indication of origin, or as part thereof.

Falsely represent, expressly or by way of reasonable implication, that any
Visual Content was created by you or a person other than the copyright holder(s)
of that Visual Content.

RESTRICTIONS SPECIFIC TO VIDEO
Use "stills" derived from Video except solely in connection with the in-context
marketing, promotion, and advertising of your derivative works incorporating
Video.

RESTRICTIONS SPECIFIC TO EDITORIAL
Use any Editorial content in a multi-media production distributed via broadcast,
cable network, OTT video service (e.g. Netflix, Hulu, Amazon), or in theaters,
or in related promotional materials.

Use any Editorial content on a publication cover, jacket, or other packaging
related to the underlying use.

Use any Editorial content in a publication with a print run in excess of 500,000
copies.

CREDIT AND COPYRIGHT NOTICES
The use of Images and Video in connection with news reporting, commentary,
publishing, or any other "editorial" context, shall be accompanied by an
adjacent credit to the Shutterstock contributor and to Shutterstock in
substantially the following form:

"Name of Artist/Shutterstock.com"

Editorial credits shall take the following form:

"Name of Artist / Agency / Shutterstock"

If and where commercially reasonable, the use of Images or Video in Merchandise
or an audio-visual production shall be accompanied by a credit to Shutterstock
in substantially the following form:

"Image(s) or Video (as applicable), used under license from Shutterstock.com"

Credit attributions are not required in connection with any other use of Video
or Images unless another stock content provided is afforded credit in connection
with the same use. For clarity, attribution is always required for Editorial
content.

In all cases the credit and attribution shall be of such size, color and
prominence so as to be clearly and easily readable by the unaided eye.

PART II - MUSIC LICENSES
For the purposes of Part II of this TOS, the terms below shall have the
following meanings:
“Advertising” means a Production of not more than three-minutes in duration,
that conveys an openly-sponsored, non-personal message to promote or sell a
product and/or service.

“Entertainment Production” means a Production that is not Advertising and
intended for entertainment purposes.

“DVD” means any tangible device now or hereafter devised, including without
limitation, DVDs and Blu-ray discs, on which is recorded the Production and
which can be accessed through a DVD or Blu-ray player or other hardware capable
of playing such tangible device.

“Production” means: (i) one (1) audio-visual project in which Licensed Music is
synchronized in timed relation with moving or still images; or (ii) one (1)
audio-only project in which Licensed Music is synchronized to narration in the
context of a podcast episode, radio documentary, or radio advertisement (each
such permitted use inclusive of so-called ‘cut down’ versions thereof).

“Licensed Music” means the Music made available as part of the Content and
accessible via https://www.shutterstock.com/music/search

“Personal Use” means, in respect of a Production distributed via a Video Sharing
Platform, a Production in respect of which not more than USD$4,999 has been
spent (in aggregate) promoting, advertising, and/or marketing such Production.

“PRO-free Music” means those selections of Licensed Music tagged as “PRO-free”.

“Websites” means all online use (accessed via a web-browser, and not, for
clarity, via an application), excluding Social Media Platforms (and similar or
analogous platforms not expressly mentioned herein) and Video Sharing Platforms
(and similar or analogous platforms not expressly mentioned herein);

“Social Media Platforms” means Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, Twitch, TikTok, and
such additional platforms as Shutterstock shall determine in its sole and
absolute discretion.

“Television” means linear television programming distributed via broadcast,
satellite, so-called ‘IPTV’, and/or cable television, but specifically excludes
OTT video services (e.g. Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, Disney+, Apple+, and similar or
analogous services);

“Video Sharing Platform” means YouTube (www.youtube.com), Vimeo (www.vimeo.com),
and such additional web-based video-sharing platforms as Shutterstock shall
determine in its sole and absolute discretion.

“Pilot” means a Production, not to exceed 44 minutes in duration, which
constitutes an initial episode of a potential series;

“Public Broadcaster” means a broadcast television undertaking funded
predominantly by government and/or viewer support, on a not-for-profit basis,
including without limitation, PBS in the United States;

“Podcast Distribution Platform” means any online portal through which podcasts
may be accessed, streamed, and/or downloaded.

“Student Project” means, in respect of any Production, or other permitted use
herein (other than Advertising), one that is non-commercial, and undertaken by a
student as part of a course of study with an accredited educational institution.

“Theatrical Use” means exhibition in commercial cinemas;

MUSIC LICENSES
Shutterstock grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to synchronize
Licensed Music in a Production, which Production may be distributed worldwide,
in perpetuity, pursuant to the license you purchase (from among the two license
types set forth below), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Part II
Section 3 hereof:

STANDARD MUSIC LICENSE: A “Standard Music License” grants you the following
rights and entitlements (for clarity, all rights and entitlements detailed in
the Enhanced License are expressly excluded from the Standard Music License):

the non-exclusive right to synchronize Licensed Music in timed relation with a
Production distributed via, or otherwise made available, or hosted via:

Websites;

Social Media Platforms;

Video Sharing Platforms provided such distribution is for Personal Use only; and

Podcast Distribution Platforms, but solely in respect of audio-only Productions,
in the nature of a podcast.

Theatrical Use, but solely in respect of Student Projects

the non-exclusive right to reproduce and perform Licensed Music in, and in
connection with, plays and similar live performances, but solely to the extent
the same are Student Projects.

ENHANCED MUSIC LICENSE: An “Enhanced Music License” grants you the same rights
as under a Standard Music License together with the non-exclusive right to
synchronize Licensed Music in timed relation with a Production, including all
forms of Advertising, distributed via:

Television, in a single country, provided that any distribution of an
Entertainment Production via Television shall be further restricted to a Pilot
only; or that which is commissioned by, and available solely via a Public
Broadcaster;

Radio, in a single country;

physical point of sale locations, trade shows, in-store displays, and industrial
events, provided in all cases such use is restricted to a single country;

DVD, but not to exceed 1000 copies;

computer software applications (including mobile applications, or “apps”, and
video games), but not to exceed 1000 copies or downloads (in aggregate).

COMP MUSIC LICENSE: A Comp Music License grants you the right to synchronize
watermarked Music solely in test, sample, comp, or rough cut evaluation
materials related to a Production. The Comp Music License expressly prohibits
distributing Music to the public in any form or incorporating Music into any
final materials. You may not remove or alter the Shutterstock watermark from
Music under any circumstances

RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF MUSIC.
YOU MAY NOT:

Sub-license, re-sell, rent, lend, assign, gift or otherwise transfer or
distribute to any third-party the Licensed Music or the right to use the
Licensed Music separate and apart from the Production in which (pursuant to your
license) it is embodied;

Resell, redistribute, provide access to, share or transfer any Licensed Music
except as specifically provided herein;

Manufacture, distribute, sell or otherwise exploit "records", CDs, mp3s or any
other audio product embodying sound alone which incorporates Licensed Music,
other than an audio-only Production expressly described in the definition of
"Production" above. For the purpose of this sub-section the term "records" means
all forms of reproductions, whether now known or hereafter devised, manufacture
or distributed primary for home use, school use, or juke box use, embodying
sound alone (excluding synchronized material);

Use the Licensed Music in connection with other material that is pornographic,
defamatory, libelous, obscene, immoral, illegal or that otherwise violates any
right(s) of any third party(ies);

Violate export laws, restrictions or regulations, by shipping, transferring or
exporting Music into any country in violation of any export laws, restrictions
or regulation;

Use, sell, sublicense, reproduce, distribute, display, incorporate into or
otherwise make Licensed Music, in whole or in part, available as, or as part of,
production library content, or downloadable files or include the Licensed Music
or any derivative work incorporating the Licensed Music in any other stock
product, library, or collection;

Remix, mashup, or otherwise alter the Licensed Music, except that you may engage
in basic editing of the Licensed Music (e.g., setting start/stop points,
determining fade-in/fade-out points, etc.) in connection with the exercise of
the license granted under this agreement;

Use Licensed Music in an audio-only Production in which music is the primary
content.

Except for the PRO-free Music in the event any public performance licenses are
required in connection with your use of the Licensed Music as authorized under
this TOS, you shall be responsible for obtaining such licenses at your sole
expense. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this TOS: (a) in
the event the laws of any jurisdiction require that, in order to avoid
infringement or the violation of any third party rights, licenses be obtained
from collection societies or similar entities for or in connection with
activities otherwise authorized under this TOS, you shall be responsible for
obtaining and paying for such licenses at your sole expense; and (b) this
agreement does not include any so-called "moral rights" or like rights. You will
file complete and accurate “cue sheets” with the appropriate Performing Rights
Organization(s) and furnish a copy of each such cue sheet to Shutterstock via
email to cuesheets@shutterstock.com. This obligation shall apply to all Licensed
Music other than the PRO-free Music.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein, and in respect
of the PRO-free Music, you acknowledge and agree that nothing herein shall
preclude Shutterstock from making a claim for a share of any so-called “black
box” funds or any funds paid, or payable, by any collection society or otherwise
by way of general distribution on a country by country basis. In addition, in
the event that any PRO-free Music is publicly performed (or made available for
performance) by any entity engaged in the exhibition or other transmission of
programming (each a “Downstream Distributor”), and such exhibition gives rise to
the payment by such Downstream Distributor of fees or royalties to a performing
rights organization in any jurisdiction, nothing herein shall be preclude
Shutterstock from making a claim for a share of such monies, it being
acknowledged that where a Downstream Distributor is not licensed for the
performance of Music through licenses with performing rights organizations, then
the use of the PRO-free Music as incorporated into a Production distributed,
exhibited, and/or transmitted by such *Downstream Distributor shall be deemed to
be direct and there shall be no obligation (created herein) upon such Downstream
Distributor to obtain any license from any performing rights organization in
respect of such use.
You may publish Productions incorporating Music on third party "user-generated"
content distribution platforms (e.g., YouTube) (each a "UGC Platform"). You may
not claim ownership of the Music or otherwise register any Music with any UGC
Platform even as synchronized with your own Production. If you become aware that
any third party claims any ownership interests in any Music, you agree to
promptly notify Shutterstock of each such claim.
When incorporating the Music in the type of Production in which copyright
attribution is customary, you shall provide credit in substantially the
following form:
"'[Music Title]' performed by [Artist], used under license from Shutterstock"

PART III - WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS
Shutterstock warrants and represents that:
Shutterstock's contributors have granted Shutterstock all necessary rights in
and to the Content to grant the rights set forth in Part I or Part II as
applicable.

Video and Images in its original unaltered form and used in full compliance with
this TOS and applicable law, will not: i) infringe any copyright, trademark or
other intellectual property right; ii) violate any third parties' rights of
privacy or publicity; iii) violate any US law, statute, ordinance, or
regulation; or iv) be defamatory, libelous, pornographic or obscene.

Editorial content in the original unaltered form and used in full compliance
with this TOS and applicable law, will not infringe a third party’s copyright,
it being understood that the foregoing warranty does not apply to elements
depicted in the Editorial content.

While Shutterstock makes commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the accuracy
of keywords and descriptions, as well as the integrity of Visual Content
designated "Editorial Use Only", SHUTTERSTOCK MAKES NO WARRANTIES AND/OR
REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING ANY: I) KEYWORD, TITLES OR DESCRIPTIONS; OR II) AUDIO
IN VIDEO. For the sake of clarity, Shutterstock will not indemnify or have any
liability in respect of any claims arising from inaccurate keyword, titles or
descriptions, any audio in Video.
SHUTTERSTOCK MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER OTHER THAN THOSE
EXPRESSLY MADE IN THIS "WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS" SECTION.
PART IV - INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY
Subject to the terms hereof, and provided that you have not breached the terms
of this or any other agreement with Shutterstock, Shutterstock will defend,
indemnify, and hold you harmless up to the applicable "Limit of Liability" set
forth below. Such indemnification is solely limited to Customer’s direct damages
arising from a third-party claim directly attributable to Shutterstock’s breach
of the express warranties and representations made in Part III hereof, together
with associated expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees). Indemnification
is conditioned upon you notifying Shutterstock, in writing, of any such claim or
threatened claim, no later than five (5) business days from the date you know or
reasonably should have known of the claim or threatened claim. Such notification
must include all details of the claim then known to you (e.g., the use of
Content at issue, the name and contact information of the person and/or entity
making the claim, copies of any correspondence received and/or sent in
connection with the claim). The notification must be emailed to Shutterstock at
legal-notices@shutterstock.com, with a hard copy to Shutterstock, 350 5th
Avenue, 21st Floor, New York, New York, 10118, Attention: General Counsel, via
certified mail, return receipt requested; or ii) overnight courier, recipient’s
signature required. Shutterstock shall have the right to assume the handling,
settlement or defense of any claim or litigation to which this indemnification
applies. You agree to cooperate with Shutterstock in the defense of any such
claim and shall have the right to participate in any litigation at your own
expense. You agree that Shutterstock is not liable for any legal fees and/or
other costs incurred by you or on your behalf prior to Shutterstock having a
reasonable opportunity to analyze such claim’s validity.
Shutterstock shall not be liable for any damages, costs or losses arising as a
result of modifications made to the Content or due to the context in which you
use the Content.
Limits of Liability: Shutterstock’s total maximum aggregate obligation and
liability (the "Limit of Liability") arising out of each of Customer’s:
Standard Image Licenses shall be USD $10,000.

Enhanced Image Licenses shall be USD $250,000.

Standard and Enhanced Video Use Licenses shall be USD $10,000.

Editorial Licenses shall be USD $25,000.

Standard or Enhanced Music Licenses shall be limited to the license fee paid by
you for the applicable Music asset.

If you have questions about the foregoing, please contact Customer Service.
(Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US 1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer
Support)

You will indemnify and hold Shutterstock, its officers, employees, shareholders,
directors, managers, members and suppliers, harmless against any damages or
liability of any kind arising from any use of the Visual Content other than the
uses expressly permitted by this TOS. You further agree to indemnify
Shutterstock for all costs and expenses that Shutterstock incurs in the event
that you breach any of the terms of this or any other agreement with
Shutterstock.
PART V - ADDITIONAL TERMS
Except when required by law, Shutterstock shall be under no obligation to issue
refunds under any circumstances. All fees are non-refundable, even if your
subscription is terminated before its expiration. You authorize Shutterstock to
charge you all subscription fees for the duration of the term agreed to at the
time of purchase. In the event that Shutterstock determines that you are
entitled to a refund of all or part of the fees you paid, such refund shall be
made using the payment method originally used by you to make your purchase. If
you reside in the European Union and you cancel your account within fourteen
(14) days of making payment to Shutterstock, provided that you have not yet
downloaded or licensed any Visual Content, Shutterstock, will refund the payment
made by you in connection with such cancelled account. To cancel your account,
please contact Customer Service. (Phone: Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US
1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer Support).
Following the expiration of your subscription plan, such plan will automatically
renew on the same terms as your original plan purchase. You can disable
automatic renewal at any time prior to renewal using your account settings. You
expressly grant Shutterstock the right to charge you for each automatic renewal
until you timely disable automatic renewal.
The fees charged by Shutterstock are exclusive of taxes, and all such taxes,
direct or indirect, shall be in addition to any fees related to the products you
are buying. If Shutterstock is required to collect indirect and/or transactional
taxes (such as sales tax, value-added tax, goods and services tax, et al) under
the laws of your state or country of residence, you shall be liable for payment
of any such indirect tax. Where Shutterstock or you are required to collect or
remit direct or indirect taxes, you may be required to self-assess said tax
under the applicable laws of your country of residence.
"Non-transferable" as used herein means that except as specifically provided in
this TOS, you may not sell, rent, load, give, sublicense, or otherwise transfer
to anyone, Content or the right to use Content. You may however, make a one-time
transfer of Content to a third party for the sole purpose of causing such third
party to print and/or manufacture your goods incorporating Content subject to
the terms and conditions herein. If you become aware that any social media
website uses any Content in a manner that exceeds your license hereunder, you
agree to remove all derivative works incorporating Content from such Social
Media Site, and to promptly notify Shutterstock of each such social media
website's use. You agree to take all commercially reasonable steps to prevent
third parties from duplicating any Content. If you become aware of any
unauthorized duplication of any Content please contact Customer Service. (Phone:
Inside US 1-866-663-3954, Outside US 1-646-419-4452 Email: Customer Support).
Upon notice from Shutterstock or if you learn that any Content is subject to a
threatened or actual claim of infringement, violation of another right, or any
other claim for which Shutterstock may be liable, or if Shutterstock removes any
Content due to perceived business risk as determined in Shutterstock's
reasonable discretion and gives you notice of such removal, you will remove the
Content from your computer systems and storage devices (electronic or physical)
and, if possible, cease any future use of the removed Content at your own
expense. Shutterstock shall provide you with comparable Content (which
comparability will be determined by Shutterstock in its reasonable commercial
judgment) free of charge, but subject to the terms and conditions of this TOS.
If you use any Content as part of work product created for or delivered to a
client or customer, you will disclose the identities of such clients or
customers to Shutterstock, upon Shutterstock’s reasonable request.
Arbitration.
Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this TOS, or the breach
thereof, shall be settled by binding individual (not class) arbitration
administered under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association or of the International Centre for Dispute Resolution in effect on
the date of the commencement of arbitration, rather than in court, and judgment
on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction thereof or having jurisdiction over the relevant party or its
assets. The place of arbitration shall be the state and county of New York. The
language of the arbitration shall be English. There shall be one arbitrator to
be mutually agreed by the parties. Each party shall bear its own costs in the
arbitration. Both parties agree that the following claims are exceptions to the
Arbitration Agreement and will be brought in a judicial proceeding in a court of
competent jurisdiction: (i) any claim related to actual or threatened
infringement, misappropriation or violation of a party’s copyrights, trademarks,
trade secrets, patents, or other intellectual property rights; (ii) any claim
seeking emergency injunctive relief based on exigent circumstances (e.g.,
imminent danger or commission of a crime, hacking, cyber-attack) (iii) any claim
arising solely from Customer’s alleged failure to pay fees due to Shutterstock.
This arbitration provision will survive termination of this TOS.

YOU AND SHUTTERSTOCK AGREE THAT EACH MAY BRING CLAIMS AGAINST THE OTHER ONLY IN
YOUR OR ITS INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY AND NOT AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY
PURPORTED CLASS OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION. Unless both you and Shutterstock
agree, no arbitrator or judge may consolidate more than one person’s claims or
otherwise preside over any form of a representative or class proceeding. The
arbitrator may award injunctive relief only in favor of the individual party
seeking relief and only to the extent necessary to provide relief warranted by
that party’s individual claim. You and Shutterstock acknowledge and agree that
we are each waiving the right to a trial by jury as to all arbitrable disputes
under this TOS.

If a court decides that applicable law precludes enforcement of any of the
limitations in this Part V, Section 7 as to a particular claim for relief, then
that claim (and only that claim) must be severed from the arbitration and may be
brought in court.

Neither party may assign this agreement, without the prior written approval of
the other party, except that Shutterstock may assign this agreement to a
subsidiary, an affiliated company within the Shutterstock group, the entity that
results from a merger or other corporate reorganization involving Shutterstock,
or an entity that acquires all or substantially all of Shutterstock’s assets or
capital stock.
This TOS shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but
rather in accordance with the fair meaning of the language hereof. This TOS is
governed by and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction set forth in Section 5.24, without respect to its conflict of laws
principles.
If you are entering into this TOS on behalf of your employer or other entity,
you warrant and represent that you have the full right and authority to do so.
In the event that you do not have such authority, you agree that you will be
personally liable to Shutterstock for any breaches of the terms of this TOS. You
hereby grant Shutterstock a worldwide, non-exclusive, limited license to use
your trademarks in Shutterstock's promotional materials, including a public
customer list. Shutterstock's use of your trademarks shall at all times conform
to your then-current trademark use policies as made available to Shutterstock
and shall at all times inure to your benefit. Shutterstock further agrees that
it will use commercially reasonable efforts to terminate any particular use of
your trademark no later than thirty (30) days from the date of receipt by
Shutterstock of your email request to legal-notices@shutterstock.com.
The number of Content downloads available to you is determined by the product
you purchase. For the purposes of this TOS, a day is defined as the twenty four
(24) hour period beginning at the time your product is purchased. A month is
defined as a calendar month beginning on and including the date that you
purchase your product and ending on that date which is the earlier of (i) the
same date as your purchase in the following month or (ii) the last day of the
following month. By way of example, if you purchase a monthly subscription on
March 5, it will renew on April 5. If you purchase a monthly subscription on
August 31, your subscription will renew on September 30.
Unless otherwise specified in the coupon, any coupon or discount code applied to
a purchase hereunder shall apply only to the first payment made in connection
with such purchase.
If any individual term of this TOS is found to be invalid or unenforceable by
any legal or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction, such finding will be
limited solely to such invalid or unenforceable part, without affecting the
remaining parts of such individual term, or any other part of this TOS, so that
this TOS shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.
You expressly agree that any feedback provided to you by Shutterstock or its
representatives regarding any questions you may have about this TOS or your use
of Content licensed hereunder, is solely for the purpose of interpreting this
TOS and is not legal advice. Shutterstock cannot render legal advice to you and
expressly disclaims any liability of any kind related to any feedback provided
by Shutterstock or its representatives.
It is expressly understood and agreed that this TOS is entered into solely for
the mutual benefit of the parties herein and that no benefits, rights, duties,
or obligations are intended by this TOS as to third parties.
In the event that you breach any of the terms of this or any other agreement
with Shutterstock, Shutterstock shall have the right to terminate your account
without further notice, in addition to Shutterstock's other rights at law and/or
equity. Shutterstock shall be under no obligation to refund any fees paid by you
in the event that your account is terminated by reason of a breach.
Except as expressly set forth in the applicable license and warranties sections
herein, Shutterstock grants no rights and makes no further warranties.
Shutterstock only has model or property releases where expressly indicated on
the Shutterstock website.
Shutterstock's liability under any individual license purchased hereunder shall
not exceed the "Limit of Liability" applicable to the license in effect at the
time you know or should have known of the claim, and is without regard to the
number of times the subject Content is licensed or used by you.
Except as specifically provided in Part IV hereof, in no event, will
Shutterstock's total aggregate liability to you or any third party claiming
through you, arising out of or in connection with your use of or inability to
use the Shutterstock websites and/or Content contained thereon (whether in
contract, tort or otherwise) exceed the monetary amount actually received by
Shutterstock from you for the applicable Content license.
Neither Shutterstock nor any of its officers, employees, managers, members,
shareholders, directors or suppliers shall be liable to you or to any other
person or entity for any general, punitive, special, indirect, consequential or
incidental damages, or lost profits or any other damages, costs or losses
arising out of your use of the Content, Shutterstock's breach of this agreement,
or otherwise, unless expressly provided for herein, even if Shutterstock has
been advised of the possibility of such damages, costs or losses.
Except as expressly set forth in Part III, all Content is provided "as is"
without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, but not
limited to the implied warranties of non-infringement, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose. Some Content may contain elements that require
additional clearance if the Content is modified or used in a particular context.
If you make such modification or use Content in such context, you are solely
responsible for obtaining any additional clearances thereby required.
Shutterstock does not warrant that the Content, Shutterstock websites, or other
materials will meet your requirements or that use will be uninterrupted or error
free. The entire risk as to the quality, performance and use of the Content is
solely with you.
In the event that you use fraudulent credit card information to open an account
or otherwise engage in any criminal activity affecting Shutterstock,
Shutterstock will promptly file a complaint with www.ic3.gov, the internet crime
complaint center, a partnership between the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) and the National White Collar Crime Center.
Shutterstock contracting party and choice of law. Subscriptions and purchases
initiated before 15 March 2021 are contracted with Shutterstock, Inc., including
all subsequent installment payments and automatic renewals until cancelled.
Subscriptions from 15 March 2021 but before 17 May 2022, are contracted with the
Shutterstock entity identified in the TOS in effect at the time of your initial
purchase, including all subsequent installment payments and automatic renewals
until cancelled. For new subscriptions and purchases initiated from 17 May 2022,
your country of residence is the same as your billing address, as same is
provided by you to Shutterstock in connection with your account.
Your Country of Residence       Shutterstock contracting party and
“Shutterstock” hereunder     Choice of Law   Arbitration Location
United States, Canada, India, Brazil, Germany, Netherlands, France, Italy,
Spain,Austria, Belgium, Greece, Portugal, Finland, Cyprus, Slovenia, Luxembourg,
Malta, and Reunion
Shutterstock, Inc.

350 Fifth Avenue, 21st Floor, New York, NY 10118, United States.

New York	New York County, New York
Rest of World	
Shutterstock Ireland Ltd.

34-37 Clarendon St, 2nd floor, Dublin 2, D02 DE61, Ireland.

Ireland	Dublin, Ireland


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice
is included in all copies of any software which is or includes a copy
or modification of this software and in all copies of the supporting
documentation for such software.
THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTY. IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHORS NOR LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES MAKE ANY
REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE MERCHANTABILITY
OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright © 2015-2021 the original authors.
Copyright Apple Inc., 2017
Copyright 2023 The TensorFlow Authors. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2023 The MediaPipe Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2023 The MediaPipe Authors. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2023 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2022 The TensorFlow Authors.
Copyright 2022 The MediaPipe Authors.s
Copyright 2022 The MediaPipe Authors. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2022 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2021 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2020-2022 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2020-2021 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2020 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2020 Google LLC
Copyright 2019-2022 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2019-2021 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2019-2020 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2019, 2021 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2019 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2019 - 2022 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2018 The TensorFlow Authors.
Copyright 2018 The MediaPipe Authors.
Copyright 2015 the original author or authors.
Copyright 2009 Google Inc. Author: jyrki@google.com (Jyrki Alakuijala)
Copyright 2009 Google Inc. Author: aappleby@google.com (Austin Appleby)
jyrki@google.com (Jyrki Alakuijala)
Copyright 2009 Google Inc. Author: aappleby@google.com (Austin Appelby)
jyrki@google.com (Jyrki Alakuijala)
Copyright (c) 2018 ksuper/Shutterstock. 
Copyright (c) 2005-2019 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2002 by Lucent Technologies.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Mathias Svensson ( http://result42.com )
CopyRIGHT 2023 The MediaPipe Authors.
