================================================================================

backbone-1.6.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Restrictive-Proprietary

Dalton Maag Font Software
Licence Agreement
This document contains capitalized terms which are defined in Section 03.
This Font Software Licence Agreement (‘Agreement’) becomes a binding contract
between you
and Dalton Maag when you commence a Font Software download, extract the Font
Software
from an archive, open the packaging of physical media containing the Font
Software, or when you
accept this Agreement by other means (e.g. by confirmation email).
If you do not wish to be bound by this Agreement, you cannot download, access,
install, or Use
the Font Software. Please read the entirety of this Agreement before agreeing to
be bound by its
terms.
01 General Terms
You hereby agree to the following:
Binding Agreement
You are bound by this Agreement and acknowledge that all Use of the Font
Software supplied by
Dalton Maag is governed by this Agreement.
Licence Grant
You are hereby granted a licence to access the Font Software subject to all of
the terms of this
Agreement and as specified by your Licence Pack. This licence is non-exclusive,
non-assignable,
and non-transferable, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement.
Licence Transfer
You may transfer all of your rights under this Agreement to another person or
legal entity
provided that you notify Dalton Maag in writing of the transferee’s details
within seven (7) days of
the transfer, provided that the transferee accepts and agrees to be bound by the
entirety of this
Agreement, provided that you destroy all copies of the Font Software, including
all copies stored
in the memory of a Device, and provided that the entirety of the Licence Pack is
transferred.
Copyright
You agree that the typeface design, Font Software, code, and related files are
protected by the
copyright, design, and other intellectual property laws of England and Wales, by
the copyright
and design laws of other nations, and by international treaties.
You may not copy the Font Software, except as expressly permitted by this
Agreement. You may
use automated processes to create subsets and transformations of the Font
Software solely for
the purpose of embedding the Font Software where embedding rights are granted to
you by this
Agreement. You otherwise agree not to adapt, modify, alter, translate, convert,
create derivative
works, or otherwise change any part of the Font Software.
You may only reverse engineer the Font Software to produce a compatible software
product,
provided that such a product is not a derivative work of the Font Software.
Trademarks
If you refer to a trademark associated with the Font Software you must ensure it
is only in
reference to output produced by the Font Software. Referring to a trademark does
not give
you any ownership rights for that trademark. You may not change any trademark or
trade name
designation for the Font Software.
Limited Warranty
Dalton Maag makes no warranty that this Font Software is suitable for any
specific purpose.
Dalton Maag will provide you with basic technical support on the correct
installation and
exploitation of the Font Software in common software packages and operating
systems upon
request for a period of twelve (12) months from the commencement of this
Agreement. Once
Font Software has been downloaded or security seals broken on physical
packaging, the
software cannot be returned. Otherwise, you have the right to cancel within
fourteen (14) days of
completion of the contract of sale.
Termination
This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon failure by you to pay any
associated invoice
when it is due, or upon failure by you (or any authorized person or member of
your immediate
household to whom you have given permission to Use the Font Software) to comply
with its
terms. The termination of this Agreement shall not preclude Dalton Maag from
taking legal action
for any breach of this Agreement.
Enforcement and Variation
If you are a company or organization, you agree that upon request from Dalton
Maag you will
within thirty (30) days fully document and certify that all Use of Dalton Maag
Font Software at the
time of the request conforms with your Licence Pack and this Agreement.
This Agreement may only be varied or modified by an authorized officer of Dalton
Maag.
In the event that any term of this Agreement is unenforceable or invalid, this
Agreement shall
not be rendered unenforceable or invalid as a whole. Any such provision shall be
changed and
interpreted to best accomplish the objectives of such an unenforceable or
invalid provision within
the limits of applicable law.
Governing Law
This Agreement is governed by the laws of England and Wales. For the purposes of
the Sale
of Goods Act 1979, Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982,Consumer Contracts
(Information,
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013, and the Consumer Rights
Act 2015, Font
Software is classified as computer software.
Licence-Specific Terms
02.01 ‘Desktop’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Desktop’ licence you:
• may install the specified Desktop Font Software on any number of Devices which
are under
the exclusive control of you or your Users.
• must ensure that the number of simultaneous Users of Devices on which the
Desktop Font
Software is installed does not exceed the maximum number of Users permitted by
your
Licence Pack.
• may distribute digital documents (e.g. PDFs) in which the Desktop Font
Software is embedded,
only when such digital documents use all available flags and technical measures
to prevent
editing of the document or extraction of the Font Software, and only if none of
the digital
documents is a Commercial Digital Document.
• may make modifications to the output of the Desktop Font Software as it
appears in artwork,
provided that such artwork is not usable as Font Software.
• must not transfer ownership of a Device on which the Desktop Font Software is
installed.
02.02 ‘Web’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Web’ licence you:
• may host the specified Web Font Software on any number of web servers under
your sole
control, or on a CDN.
• may reference the Web Font Software using only @font-face from the CSS, or the
equivalent
JavaScript, on any number of websites under your sole control; no other method
of
referencing the Web Font Software is permitted.
• must use technical protections, such as cross-origin blocking, to ensure that
the Web Font
Software cannot be successfully referenced by any other website or digital
advertisement.
• must, at your cost, measure and record pageviews, across all websites which
reference the
Web Font Software, using a recognized and reputable third-party external
analytics service
expressly permitted by Dalton Maag (currently Adobe Analytics, Adobe Data
Workbench,
Google Analytics, Matomo, Plausible, Yandex Metrica).
• must ensure that the total number of pageviews in any calendar month, across
all pages on all
websites on which any of the pages reference the Web Font Software, does not
exceed the
maximum number of monthly pageviews permitted by your Licence Pack.
02.03 ‘App/Game’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains an ‘App/Game’ licence you:
• may embed the specified App Font Software in the executable file of any number
of apps or
games, the content of which is under your sole control.
• may distribute, solely on recognized and reputable app stores and digital
distribution
platforms expressly permitted by Dalton Maag (currently Amazon Appstore, Apple
App Store,
Epic Games Store, GamersGate, GOG.com, Google Play, Huawei AppGallery, itch.io,
Mac App
Store, Microsoft Store, Nintendo eShop, Opera Mobile Store, Playstation Store,
Samsung
Galaxy Store, Steam), apps or games in which the App Font Software is embedded;
this
licence type does not allow physical distribution – see 02.07 for an appropriate
licence type.
must use all available flags and technical measures to prevent the App Font
Software from
being extracted from the executable file of the apps or games in which it is
embedded.
• must ensure that the App Font Software is not embedded into any file produced
by, or saved
from, the apps or games in which it is embedded.
• must ensure that the App Font Software is not available or usable outside of
the apps or
games in which it is embedded.
• must ensure that the total number of downloads of all apps in which the App
Font Software is
embedded, across all app stores and distribution platforms, does not exceed the
maximum
number of downloads permitted by your Licence Pack.
02.04 ‘ePub’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains an ‘ePub’ licence you:
• may distribute Commercial Digital Documents in which the specified App Font
Software is
embedded, only when such digital documents are in a secure format which prevents
editing
of the document and prevents extraction of the Font Software, and where the
content is under
your sole control.
• must ensure that the number of distinct Commercial Digital Documents does not
exceed the
maximum number of titles permitted by your Licence Pack. Each issue of a
publication counts
as a distinct title; file format variations of a single Commercial Digital
Document do not count
as separate titles.
• must not offer or supply personalized Commercial Digital Documents in which
the App Font
Software is embedded; this licence type does not allow personalized Commercial
Digital
Documents – see 02.05 for an appropriate licence type.
02.05 ‘Server’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Server’ licence you:
• may install the specified App Font Software on a Server which is solely under
your control.
• may embed the App Font Software in a software component and install that
software
component on a Server which is solely under your control.
• may configure the Server or the software component to embed the App Font
Software in
digital documents, including personalized Commercial Digital Documents, for
supply and
distribution outside of your organization, only when such digital documents are
in a secure
format which prevents editing of the document and prevents extraction of the
Font Software.
• must ensure that App Font Software installed on a Server or embedded in the
software
component cannot be downloaded or Used by any third party.
• must ensure that the number of Servers on which App Font Software or the
software
component is installed does not exceed the maximum number of Servers permitted
by your
Licence Pack.
02.06 ‘Digital Ads’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Digital Ads’ licence you:
• may Use the specified Web Font Software to create and publish digital
advertisements, only
where the content of such digital advertisements is under your sole control.
may host the Web Font Software on any number of web servers under your sole
control, or on
a CDN, solely for the purpose of publishing digital advertisements.
• must use technical protections, such as cross-origin blocking, to ensure that
the Web Font
Software cannot be successfully referenced by any other website or digital
advertisement.
• may reference the Web Font Software using @font-face from the CSS, or the
equivalent
JavaScript, of any number of digital advertisements, and may embed the Web Font
Software
in Base-64 format in the CSS of any number of digital advertisements; no other
method of
referencing the Web Font Software is permitted.
• must cease the publication of all digital advertisements which embed or
reference the Web
Font Software at the end of the specified term of your licence.
02.07 ‘Software Distribution’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Software Distribution’ licence you:
• may distribute the specified Desktop Font Software packaged with software
applications or
operating systems compatible with the Desktop Font Software, only where the
design and
specification of such software applications or operating systems are under your
sole control;
no other distribution is permitted.
• must ensure that in all packages the software application or operating system
represents
at least 50% of the value of the package, and that the Desktop Font Software
plus any thirdparty font software do not in aggregate represent more than 25% of
the value of the package.
• must require the end-user of the software application or operating system to
agree to
Sections 01, 02.01, and 03 of this Agreement.
02.08 ‘Hardware/Firmware Distribution’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains a ‘Hardware/Firmware Distribution’ licence you:
• may install the specified Desktop Font Software on Devices compatible with the
Desktop
Font Software, and distribute those Devices, only where the design and
specification of such
Devices are under your sole control; no other distribution is permitted.
• must ensure that the Desktop Font Software plus any third-party font software
do not in
aggregate represent more than 10% of the value of the Device.
• must require the end-user of the Device to agree to Sections 01, 02.01, and 03
of this
Agreement if the end-user is able to Use the Desktop Font Software.
• must ensure that the number of Devices on which the Desktop Font Software is
installed does
not exceed the maximum number of Devices permitted by your Licence Pack.
02.09 ‘Unlimited’ Licence
If your Licence Pack contains an ‘Unlimited’ licence you are granted ‘Desktop’,
‘Web’, ‘App/Game’,
‘ePub’, ‘Server’, ‘Digital Ads’, ‘Software Distribution’, and ‘Hardware/Firmware
Distribution’ licences
as follows:
• ‘Desktop’ licence under Section 02.01, with an unlimited number of Users.
• ‘Web’ licence under Section 02.02, with an unlimited number of pageviews.
• ‘App/Game’ licence under Section 02.03, with an unlimited number of downloads.
• ‘ePub’ licence under Section 02.04, with an unlimited number of Commercial
Digital
Documents.
‘Server’ licence under Section 02.05, with an unlimited number of Servers.
• ‘Digital Ads’ licence under Section 02.06, with an unlimited campaign
duration.
• ‘Software Distribution’ licence under Section 02.07.
• ‘Hardware/Firmware Distribution’ licence under Section 02.08, with an
unlimited number of
Devices.
03 Definitions
‘App Font Software’ means Font Software in OpenType format labelled by Dalton
Maag as ‘app
fonts’. App Font Software is optimized for the requirements of mobile devices
and ereaders.
‘Commercial Digital Document’ means a digital document which is offered as part
of a
commercial transaction in which the consideration is related to the document
(e.g. an ebook). A
digital document created only for a personal activity (e.g. personal
correspondence), or as part of
a commercial transaction in which the consideration is unrelated to the Document
(e.g. business
letter, an invoice, a preview of a customized physical item, an event ticket,
promotional product
literature) are not considered a Commercial Digital Document.
‘Dalton Maag’ means Dalton Maag Ltd, its successors, its parent and affiliated
corporations, its
authorized distributors, and any third party which has licensed to Dalton Maag
any or all of the
components of the Font Software supplied to you.
‘Desktop Font Software’ means Font Software in OpenType format labelled by
Dalton Maag as
‘desktop fonts’.
‘Device’ means a hardware, firmware, or virtualized hardware component to which
an individual
is able to give commands (whether by keyboard or otherwise), regardless of the
locations of the
individual, the Device, or the Font Software.
‘Font Software’ means the software supplied by Dalton Maag which, when Used with
an
appropriate Device, generates typeface and typographic designs and ornaments.
Font Software
includes all subsets or transformations derived from the Font Software. Font
Software includes
upgrades, updates, related files, copies, and related documentation.
‘Licence Pack’ means the valid Font Software licences held by you, as specified
on your invoice,
receipt, or letter agreement.
‘Server’ means a hardware or virtualized hardware component which hosts files
and/or services
and makes them available outside of your organization.
‘Use’ of Font Software occurs when an individual is able to give commands
(whether by keyboard
or otherwise) to a Device on which the Font Software is installed, regardless of
the locations of
the individual, the Device, or the Font Software.
‘User’ means an individual who is a member of your immediate household, your
authorized
employee, or your authorized agent who gives commands (whether by keyboard or
otherwise) to
a Device on which the Font Software is installed, regardless of the locations of
the individual, the
Device, or the Font Software.
‘Web Font Software’ means Font Software in WOFF or WOFF2 format labelled by
Dalton Maag as
‘web fonts’. Web Font Software is optimized for the requirements of web
browsers.
04 Further Information
Any licensing enquiries should be sent to licensing@daltonmaag.com.
Version 2.0. For licences issued from 1 March 2022.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: BSD-3-Clause OR MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
    without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under BSD-3-Clause OR MIT, in this context
MIT has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either BSD-3-Clause OR MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

copyright Google 2012
Copyright jQuery Foundation and other contributors
Copyright Apple Inc., 2014
Copyright 2012 jQuery Foundation and other contributors
Copyright 2006 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2024 Jeremy Ashkenas, DocumentCloud
Copyright (c) 2010-2012, The Dojo Foundation All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2012 Mika Tuupola
(c) Vasily Polovnyov <vast@whiteants.net>
(c) 2010-2024 Jeremy Ashkenas and DocumentCloud
(c) 2009-2015 Jeremy Ashkenas, DocumentCloud and Investigative Reporters &
Editors

